 20240318  Addressing the question what connections are there between the Zettelkasten system, creative ideation and network graphs?. Trying to think about how zk and graphs are complex systems, and how creative ideation is the result of those systems. How does that happen? That consciousness occurs when colonies of cells are large enough in number and connections is an interesting angle, but in the case of zk, the notes aren't 'interacting' with themselves per se. Rather, it is the interaction within the mind, of the information they hold, that somehow comes together to create an idea.  Idea's are generated from borrowing parts of preexisting information.

 20240402  The theories of Connectionism (via Connectionism and Cognitive Architecture  A critical analysis) and the 1LS approach to interpreting networked data systems (The Whole Is Always Smaller Than Its Parts  a Digital Test of Gabriel Tardes Monads), are seeming to fit my concept and approach to the ctech masters thesis.  Connectionism will help to explain:   how creative ideas can arise from zettelkasten (both are systems of data   being input and output from nodes). Still to be explored is at what moment   that happens in Zk: It happens when spawning a new note as well as when   following a link to an established note. When travelling this way, the reader   brings new context to the destination note, which is then infused with the   content of that destination note and can lead to the unexpected discovery of   'shared associations' (a term from Latour, the whole is always smaller... paper)

 20240403  Service Science  An ActorNetwork Theory Approach provides a good background of Anchor Network Theory and how they apply it to their own research.

Questions:  Getting concerned about the practical work load:   can I extend ZK instead of building the entire markdown parsing code? (yes)  can I focus on AI features only? (yes)   zooming in / out may be making the theoretical concept too broad    instead, concept could focus more on the ANT interaction between actors and     translation; which can then have feature sets built from them.  When explaining Zettelkasten being a web of knowledge, she asked what's the difference between that and the internet?. This is an important question to include in the thesis.

 p. 29 Two other kinds of multiplicity  multiplepersonality and marginality.  These are the point of departure for feminist and interactionist analyses of  power and technology.   p. 31 Asking if technology and science are different.    p. 32 Science as an ideology becomes a complex authority for rationalisation,  sexism, racism and other marginalisations.   p. 33 The purpose of this essay is to attempt to provide some tools hopefully  useful for several of these discourses, and perhaps as well as show some ways  in which technology reilluminates some of the oldest problems in social  science.   p. 39 A cyborg is in a sense the relationship between standardised  technologies and local experience.   p. 41 Once arrangements in a community become standardised, it becomes  expensive or impossible to create an alternative standard. This is interesting  in that it is true for both technological systems and societal systems.   examining how standards are established in art and that the phenomenon is  equally true for science and technology.    p. 42 Actor network theory and the mix between humans and nonhumans involved  in socioeconomic systems.   p. 43 Star argues against Latour's presentation of actor network theory  stating that it breaks down boundaries that allow us to distinguish between  humans and machines.    A good point that relates to marginalisation as well as Star's difficulty in  restaurants accomodating his onion intolerance; A stabalized network is only  stable for some, and that is for those who are members of the community of  practice who form/use/maintain it.   p. 44  45 In torture, it is in part the obsessive display of agency that  permits on person's body to be translated into another person's voice, that  allows real human pain to be converted into a regime's fiction of power.   p. 46 Stories of men wanting to undergo transexual surgery, being required to  dress and act as (stereotyped) women, and deny them surgery if they don't.   p. 47 The world of the torturer/tortured are in fact so near to one another  that our natural reaction is to avoid understanding or acknowledging it. But  Scarry argues that it is precisely this distancing that is one of the factors  that makes torture possible.    p. 48 Stabilized networks seem to insist on annihilating our personal  experience This agin seems true for social media platforms. social media  platforms insist on annihilating our personal experience   p 52 Power is about whose metaphor brings worlds together, and holds them  there.   The essay is about a point of departure for the analysis of power. In  essence identifying places of transition between standards and nonstandards,  humans and machines, outside the building, in the building (transitioning  through the door). This are spaces where power structures, metaphores,  standards and expectations can become unhinged and lose their meaning. They  hold no more structural power, and if we enforce that power in these spaces we  lead ourselves into dark and uncontrolled places  torturing those who are by  design of nature to inhabit these spaces.    References:   Star, Susan, and John Law. A Sociology of Monsters: Essays on Power,   Technology and Domination. Sociological Review Monograph 38. London:   Routledge, 1991.

Balancing Knowledge vs Action (y axis) and Folders vs Links (x axis)   Atlas : Meta view of knowledge  Calendar :time based information  Cards : considered notes  Extra : support material (attachments, graphics, templates)  Sources : outside sources of information  Spaces : sections relating to you personally (usually Life and Work)   each of these spaces has subfolders: mocs, areas, projects, support notes  20230325: It never stuck. Don't try and implement other peoples ideas to the way you order your stuff unless it really clicks. From the get go it was too convenient that it was the acronym ACCESS... More marketing that usefulness.   I address this in my GRID system for Zettelkasten organisation, and  wrote about it on my blog.   Reference:   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p0zWJTLghw

 AI prompts can boost the creativity of writers, but result in similar stories  AI doesn't help people who are already proficiently creative, but it helps those who are not creatively skilled (obviously).  However, the end result are not better stories.   “It may be individually beneficial for you to use AI, but as a society if  everyone used AI, we might all lose out on the diversity of unique ideas,” he  said. “And, arguably, for creative endeavours we might sometimes need the  ‘wild’ and ‘unusual’ ideas.”  If everyone used AI to create stories, we'd level the playing field and nothing would stand out or be unique. AI is bound to mirror the collective unconscious of society, and so at this point, the collective unconscious would become very mundane and we'd lose a lot of inspiration in our creative entertainments.    Source: https://www.theguardian.com/technology/article/2024/jul/12/aipromptscanboostwriterscreativitybutresultinsimilarstoriesstudyfinds

 Peer Review  1. Call for papers 2. Abstract submission 3. Preference, indications, conflicts 4. Paper submission 5. Paper distribution 6. Paper assignments 7. Review 8. Review overview 9. Check other reviews 10. Program committee meeting     1. Rebuttal and/or revision     2. Then cycles back to step 7. 11. Notifications 12. Cameraready submission 13. Publication

Stay aware of this as it helps deal with the truth that academic papers do not need to be as encompassing and broad as your stress while writing may have you think!  What are some processes of distillation?   TAGS / RELATED 

Concepts: codification   Pirate radio broadcasting is looked at through the lens of Cold War tactics, specifically the ambiguous line between propoganda and freedom of international information. During the Cold War, the US in particular wanted to establish broadcasting practices that stemmed the spread of Soviet ideals into the West. Additionally they understood that this would destabilise the Eastern block. In doing this, they were undergoing the same practices that the Soviet Union employed  technically speaking.   Pirate radios occupied a similar space in that they were seen as a threat to established interests (commercial and national broadcasters). They operated (initially) in unregulated waters, giving them the power to transmit and broadcast how they would like. Laws were made to disable them, and it worked. All pirate radio stations were eventually shut down.  The author establishes the idea that there was a paradox this process, as radio stood for a national medium meant to unite a population, yet it was part of the ethos that the listener should be able to learn and tune into the wider world. Pirate radio therefore occupied the space in between.    Chapter: Between Rock and Roll and a Hard Place  Alexander Badenoch   p. 12 It becomes piracy when actions cause offence to established  interests.    p. 3 Modern day piracy doesn't threaten a specific sovereignty, but rather  sovereignty itself. As was seen in the Cold War, it was a war to protect power  and not national borders.    p. 4 Argues that pirate radio is not a radical break from European  broadcasting history, but rather a continuation of dynamics that were already  present.    p. 6 Radio embodied a paradox that it stood for a national medium meant to  provide uniform coverage to unite a population, yet simultaneously allowed the  listener to explore the wider world. This combination lead to the structuring  of international agreements.    p. 7 The separation of frequency bands reduced interference at a receiver  level, and political friction at a political level.   p. 8 Listeners were also considered to be pirates after an amateur market of  receivers and radio programmes threatened the BBC, who wanted to establish a  monopoly on the radio market.     p. 9 After WW2, in 1947, the US moved to stem what they identified as the  Soviet Union's influence moving through post war Europe  particularly in  Berlin. They lobbied to have their US broadcasting frequencies allocated  within Europe, as well as their frequencies from their occupied area of  Berlin. This established the idea of international broadcasting (ie.  broadcasting over national borders). This process didn't go so smoothly as  noted in Wormbs Negotiating the Radio Spectrum, ^fafa0c.    p. 11  12 The ship Courier broadcast the Voice of America, a radio  initiative to distribute US values in an effort to reduce the spread of Soviet  influence. It was therefore intended to create disruption within the Eastern  Block, to disrupt the establishment, like music pirate radios.    p. 14 In reaction to VHF FM bands being introduced, which could travel  further, radio broadcasters stated that listeners should only have the right  to tune to their regional broadcasters.     p. 18 The pirate era dawned on August 2, 1958. Although it's not clear if  the author means internationally  ie this was the first occurrence ever.    p. 19 It was the Nordic countries that led the way in putting together a  strategy and legal framework to combat the pirates.    p. 21 The EBU recommended that broadcasters who were effected by pirate radio  stations should engage in the same tactics seen today by monopolies.  Specifically to make it illegal to aid the stations in any way shape or form,  thereby starving creating extreme risk for those who were wanting to support  or just earn money (eg in sales or repairs of equipment). Looks like it's  heading towards chickenization.    p. 29 The mobilisation of Cold War power is that of propoganda. ie  broadcasting of ideas. Pirate radio embodied this to some degree.    References:   Badenoch, Alexander, Andreas Fickers, and Christian HenrichFranke, eds. Airy   Curtains in the European Ether: Broadcasting and the Cold War. 1. edition   2013. Schriftenreihe Des Instituts Für Europäische Regionalforschungen, Band   15. BadenBaden: Nomos, 2013.

 Art in Time and Space: Context Modulates the Relation between Art Experience and Viewing Time    brieberArtTimeSpace2014, p. 1  🔵      People find viewing artworks within a purposeful environmental context to be more interesting. In this case a museum   brieberArtTimeSpace2014, p. 1 🟢       aesthetic appreciation is described as compounding liking and interest   brieberArtTimeSpace2014, p. 1  🔵      context modulates the relation between art experience and viewing behavior.

 Automated Trouble: The Role of Algorithmic Selection in Harms on Social Media Platforms   p. 223   Platforms stand accused of harming public discourse and democracy by fuelling  social fragmentation, political bias, and polarisation, and by contributing to  the spread of problematic content such as hate speech and disinformation  (Persily & Tucker, 2020).    p. 225  Algorithmic selections can be manipulated by users for commercial or abusive purposes.  While the algorithm can aggravate conflict, it can also be manipulated itself for this exact purpose. For example, the German farright group Reconquista Germanica coordinated their members to post using the same hashtags on Twitter at the same time. This manipulated the algorithm into attributing a higher ranking for the hashtag. (Kreißel et al., 2018). ^4db285    p.226  the Elsagate controversysaw nefarious content creators making inappropriate content featuring popular children's cartoon characters.     p. 227  Facebook offered a free VPN through their Onavo Protect app. While stating they would keep user activity data private, they actually collected the data and used it for competitive advantage over other companies. Highly related to Chokepoint Capitalism.    p. 228  To some degree users can mitigate algorithmic harm with self action such as privacy tools and switching to other providers. But this becomes increasingly difficult if the control of technology slips out of our hands completely, regulatory pressure does not increase, or both. It is a case for increased open source development.    References:   Saurwein, Florian, and Charlotte SpencerSmith. “Automated Trouble: The Role   of Algorithmic Selection in Harms on Social Media Platforms.” Media and   Communication 9, no. 4 (November 18, 2021): 222–33.   https://doi.org/10.17645/mac.v9i4.4062.

 Autonomous Creation of Musical Pattern from Types and Models in Live Coding   p. 2 Live Coding is a term used to refer to performers creating art by  writing computer code, usually in front of an audience (includes ref: Collins  et al. 2003)   p.3 TidalCycles stemmed from an artistic project dealing with machine  learning algorithms, and was therefore designed to be straightforward to parse  and manipulate for computers as well as humans.   p.4 cocreative systems can have their creative potential defined through the  interaction between a machine generating novel content, and the human user  considering its value.    p. 6 Margaret Boden defines the notion of a conceptual space  as a set of artefacts.   p. 7 Flow diagram of components and processes used for sequence and code  generation. Uses a ngram model to create groupings of functions.   p. 8 Autonomous pattern generation system explained.   p. 10 Reduced bloat of generated code, by limiting function selection to  functions that were unique, in that they had not yet been seen by the selector  algorithm.    References:   Wilson, Elizabeth, Shawn Lawson, Alex McLean, and Jeremy Stewart. “Autonomous   Creation of Musical Pattern from Types and Models in Live Coding,” 2021.   https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/AutonomousCreationofMusicalPatternfromTypesWilsonLawson/dd9d40e6e7544914c1c22ac4d244aae8947204a6.

 BERT  Pretraining of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding  The major limitation of major language model training is they are unidirectional, which limits the choice of architectures that can be used during pretraining.  BERT differs from preexisting models such as sentence embeddings (word2vec), paragraph embeddings (doc2vec) and ELMo as it has a bidirectional approach.  This means that it takes into account words before and after the current word. This helps to capture the full context of a word in a sentence, leading to better understanding and representation of small text documents compared to unidirectional models that only consider preceding tokens.  BERT also incorporates a next sentence prediction task during pretraining, which helps in understanding relationships between sentences. This capability is particularly beneficial for tasks involving small text documents where context and relationships are crucial.  BERT achieves bidirectionality by implementing a masked language model pretraining objective:   The masked language model randomly masks some of the tokens from the input,  and the objective is to predict the original vocabulary id of the masked word  based only on its context.    Source: Devlin, J., Chang, MW., et al. (2019), BERT: Pretraining of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding.

 C++ Evolving a useful language  Bjarne Stroustrup  Programming languages are tools. Tools for building interesting things. The value of a language is the quality of the application.  ~ 00:03:00  ...  Build c++ in order to solve a problem; to build a distributed Unix.  ~ 00:04:30  ...  c++ rests on two pillars:  1. A direct map to hardware. 2. Zerooverhead abstraction in production code.  Built based on Simula (where classes and OOP originated from) and C.  ~ 00:08:00  ...  Programs require resources and release them when they're done with those resources.  ~ 00:14:00  ...  Innovation isn't just thinking of a good idea. It needs development as well. Therefore, innovation = invention + development.  ~ 00:21:15  ...  Fundamentals to learn, recommendations:   a tour of c++  Programming  Principles and Practice Using C++  ~ 00:53:00  ...    Bjarne started as a musician studying computer science. He was interested in the boundary between software and hardware. He found he had a problem in investigating that, and for that he needed a language that didn't exist. This became c++.  It's good to learn to program in investigation of a problem or interest.  ~ 00:56:00  ...    Source: Pitching and Peer Review Talk for CTech Masters, April 2024 via Zoom. Recording: file:///Volumes/archivea0/videos/c++\_evolvingausefullanguage_bjarnestroustrup.mp4

4:50 two main problems to syncing in general:       unreliable ordering      conflicts  7:21 Solving unreliable ordering → need to create and assign timestamps  8:14 To solve unreliable ordering, we create reliable timestamps. To do this we need a reliable clock:         vector clock      hybrid logical clock (HLC)  11:37 Solving conflicts: using CRDT’s  15:32 Grow only set. In distributed systems, you can never remove something from the set (your store of changes to local data)

Xi Jinping has spooked the ultra rich in China with his 2021 announcement of  a need for common prosperity, which is almost like Universal Basic Income but sourcing the money directly from ultra rich private citizens.  High US interest reates an weak yuan are a strong incentive for rich Chinese  people to move their money out of the country.  $19.5 billion shortfall in China's balance sheet in the first half of 2023. This indicates 'capital flight'.  What kind of effect will this have on China's economy. It will slow it for sure,  but will it also increase entrepreneurship, as the up and coming companies will  face less direct internal competition.    References:   The Guardian

 _Chronotype is the natural inclination of your body to sleep at a certain  time, or what most people understand as being an early bird versus a night  owl. In addition to regulating sleep and wake times,  chronotype1 has an influence on  appetite, exercise, and core body temperature. It is responsible for the fact  that you feel more alert at certain periods of the day and sleepier at  others._ Scientists consider it very difficult or impossible to purposely  change your chronotype, though it may shift throughout the course of your  life.  sleepfoundation.org   Technique to find your Chronotype:  Think about what time you prefer to wake up on a day that you are completely free to plan, with no work or other requirements.

(See time stamps for url)  5:29 Raft, the consensus algorithm  6:24 etcd, another consensus algorithm (key value pair)  15:03 The client can operate entirely offline, and synchronise later when online  23:22 CRDTs do not require servers. They can work p2p  24:57 The theory behind CRDT is called “Order Theory”  29:30 Implementation of a CRDT counter  33:09 CRDTs require more memory, as each node requires it’s own store  36:44 Updates between peers do not need to happen in any particular order.  37:23 CRDT libraries         Ygs (JS)             Automerge (JS)             Ycrdt (Rust)             diamondtypes (Rust)             ipfs/godscrdt (Go)  39:01 Company’s discord channel. Talking about CRDTs all the time: dscord.gg/Mycelial   References:   Conflictfree Replicated Data Types (CRDTs) white paper

Containers are similar to virtual machines but they have relaxed isolation properties with regards to sharing the OS among other applications. Therefore they're considered light weight. Similar to VM's, containers have their own filesystem, share of the CPU, memory, etc. As they are decoupled from the underlying computer infrastructure, they are portable across clouds and OS distributions  Extra benefits of containers (source)   Agile application creation and deployment: increased ease and efficiency of   container image creation compared to VM image use.  Continuous development, integration, and deployment: provides for reliable and   frequent container image build and deployment with quick and efficient   rollbacks (due to image immutability).  Dev and Ops separation of concerns: create application container images at   build/release time rather than deployment time, thereby decoupling   applications from infrastructure.  Observability: not only surfaces OSlevel information and metrics, but also   application health and other signals.  Environmental consistency across development, testing, and production: Runs   the same on a laptop as it does in the cloud.  Cloud and OS distribution portability: Runs on Ubuntu, RHEL, CoreOS,   onpremises, on major public clouds, and anywhere else.  Applicationcentric management: Raises the level of abstraction from running   an OS on virtual hardware to running an application on an OS using logical   resources.  Loosely coupled, distributed, elastic, liberated microservices: applications   are broken into smaller, independent pieces and can be deployed and managed   dynamically – not a monolithic stack running on one big singlepurpose   machine.  Resource isolation: predictable application performance.  Resource utilization: high efficiency and density.

 Conversations  Love and family and Asperger's  Tony Attwood is one of the world's leading experts on Asperger's Syndrome. Attwood refers to people with Asperger's can be referred to as Aspis.    Aspis are often not integrated socially, and will therefore take lessons in romance and romantic behaviour from film and tv. This leads them to be cliché or not know how to handle specific situations.  ~ 03:30  ...  Dating and flirting for women Aspis can be particularly dangerous, because they pay more attention to what's said, rather than what's intended (reading underlying motive) through body language.  ~ 05:00  ...  Aspis are looking for someone to replace mum.  They ask, who do I need?  ~ 11:00  ...  If you live with an Aspi, you become and Aspi out of a need to adapt and survive in the environment.  ~ 19:00  ...  Aspis have the ability to embody emotion in music and art, but can't express it directly themselves through verbal or physical communication.  ~ 22:00  ...  Asperger's has been known as simply being male behaviour for previous generations.  ~ 33:00  ...  The effort of managing and working on the relationship, overwhelmingly falls on the non Aspi person in the partnership  ~ 44:00  ...    Source: https://www.abc.net.au/listen/programs/conversations/tonyattwoodloverpt/10304760

CryptoParty is a Berlin meetup focussed on teaching beginners about infosec and hacking. They run a website with information about these topics too to some degree as well as recommendations for which tools to use.   https://www.cryptoparty.in/index  Learnt about them in the book Coding Democracy.

 Deutsche Telekom AG (German pronunciation: ˌdɔʏtʃə ˈteːləkɔm ʔaːˌɡeː] ; short form often just Telekom, DTAG or DT; stylised as ·T·) is a German telecommunications company headquartered in Bonn and is the largest telecommunications provider in Europe by revenue. It was formed in 1995 when Deutsche Bundespost, a state monopoly at the time, was privatized. Since then, Deutsche Telekom has consistently featured among Fortune Magazine's top Global 500 companies by revenue, with its ranking as of 2022 at number 62. The company operates several subsidiaries worldwide, including the mobile communications brand TMobile.   As of April 2020, the German government held a direct 14.5% stake in company stock and another 17.4% through the government bank KfW. The company is a component of the EURO STOXX 50 stock market index.   [Wikipedia

 p. 6 Call for more scrutiny of the digital platform economics that large  corporations instil in the digital markets. Introduce the term platformism    p. 8 A need to address the implementation of AI within the sphere of consumer  products and applications, bringing particular attention to themes of  fairness, accountability and transparency.    p. 9 Trust is a perishable commodity and should be treated as an important  bottleneck. For this we need to develop trust infrastructure.    p. 10 Platform business models are generally intended to generate revenue by  bringing together two or more separate groups and therefore making  connections between markets. These connections are then sold.    p. 11 Schwarz is over optimistic that platforms will not exploit their  position as key coordinators of market activities.    p. 11 Gyódi analyses an extensive dataset mapping Airbnb listings and  assess the market effects of different regulatory approaches established in  London, Paris, Los Angeles and New York.    p. 1112 Findings show that stronger regulatory environments lead to a  reduction in capitalistic business attitudes amongst Airbnb vendors  no  surprise here. The idea here though is to highlight that the sharing economy  is also susceptible and controllable to regulatory engagement.    p. 13 The digital landscape of China is examined, with attention given to the  themes of an authoritarian government and monopolistic platform companies.  Additionally comparisons between open source and proprietary software is  looked at.    p. 14 Scaled platform companies need to be held accountable for their content  and we need to develop ways to balance size against innovation.    References:   Larsson, Stefan, and Jonas Schwarz. “Developing Platform Economies,” 2018. https://fores.se/wpcontent/uploads/2018/11/DevelopingPlatformEconomies_WEB.pdf.

 Digital Art: When Artistic and Cultural Muse Merges with Computer Technology   marcosDigitalArtWhen2007a, p.  98  🟡  Digital technology progressed rapidly in its development and adoption through the 1990s, defining a period known as the digital revolution   marcosDigitalArtWhen2007a, p.  100  🟡  The creative platform is the collection of infrastructures, tools, and technologies that enables the generation of artistic and cultural heritage content and the storage, transmission, and exchange of digital data.   marcosDigitalArtWhen2007a, p.  100  🟡  Constraints of digital artwork applications for proposed creative design space:   site usage: hardware options given the physical space   environmental conditions: natural element considerations (light, rain, sound bleed)   mobility: necessary or not (including for storage pre/post/during exhibition)   single / multiuser applications: consider the amount of intended users   user experience: previous user experience level with hardware / apps / interaction   addressees: target groups   References:   Marcos, Adérito Fernandes. “Digital Art: When Artistic and Cultural Muse   Merges with Computer Technology.” IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications 27,   no. 5 (2007 2007): 98–103. https://doi.org/10.1109/MCG.2007.123.

 Digital Ventriloquism  Giving Voice to Everyday Objects  A research project and prototype exploring the propogation of sound, onto other objects in the physical environment.   The speaker emits a 40k frequency soundwave, that becomes audible when making contact with a physical object. In this way, one speaker can assist in the illusion that multiple objects in the room can emit sound on their own.  Useful applications for this would be augmented reality and people with poor or no eyesight.   References:   project page

Strong theamatic relations to my CTech orientation VR project idea, Shortcut . Reminds me that flying is one of the great things in VR that isn't often part of an experience. Why walk around in VR when we can fly?..    References:    Youtube

 Ethan Zuckerman (born 1973) is an American media scholar, blogger, and  Internet activist. He was the director of the MIT Center for Civic Media, and  Associate Professor of the Practice in Media Arts and Sciences at MIT until  May 2020, and the author of the 2013 book Rewire: Digital Cosmopolitans in the  Age of Connection, which won the Zócalo Book Prize. In 2020, he became an  associate professor of public policy, communication and information at the  University of Massachusetts.  Wikipedia   Made some excellent statments in visions of the internet on open  source and where its importance.

Virtual Reality ceremony space to mourn and say farewells to deceased people.   www.farvel.space (dead link as of last check 20230102)  Markus Traber from CTech is part of the team. Made in Blender

Generalist AI that can perform 400 different tasks. Developed by DeepMind and released in 2022. Groundbreaking in that it is the first(?) generalist AI, meaning that it can not just perform one type of AI task.

Read about in Coding Democracy  Website:   Gabriella (Biella) Coleman is a full professor in the Department of  Anthropology at Harvard  University and  is a faculty associate at the  Berkman Center for Internet and Society. Her scholarship and teaching address  questions of science, technology and medicine, focusing on the politics,  cultures, and ethics of hacking.

Works at w3c. He's an advocate for decentralization, privacy and seems to really understand the future of the web.  Learnt of from the book Coding Democracy.

Helium allows users to setup their own wireless hub, that extends their own internet connection. The range is incredibly far and can be extended with more hubs.   Users earn Helium crypto tokens based on how much their hubs are used.  It's an interesting model in that there is user incentive to create a decentralised network. The problem is the potential security risks  as the network will connect via your own internet  and also be shared by other hubs. As well as this, the ISP's will not like this at all  as you are sharing your own internet connection and making money from it.   It's also a technology that should transition well with the IOT era as well as extended reality, in that users in local networks will have very high speed connection to one another. Like P2P file sharing, but in connectivity and communication.   In Coding Democracy, decentralised internet networks and local internet networks are also talked about.   Functionality   The helium network (from what I understand) is a network functioning with the LoRa protocol, which offers wireless capabilities that far out perform wifi and radio. It's a large part of what will make IoT a functional reality.

<iframe width=560 height=315 src=https://www.youtube.com/embed/4yOm4kklKIA title=YouTube video player frameborder=0 allow=accelerometer; autoplay; clipboardwrite; encryptedmedia; gyroscope; pictureinpicture allowfullscreen</iframe  Zettelkasten workflow for research papers | Zotero & Obsidian link  YouTube    First Accessed: 05/08/2022, 18:22:50   05/08/2022, 18:22:50  Zettelkasten workflow for research papers | Zotero & Obsidian link  YouTube    1:48 have a clear goal of why you’re reading the paper   source     05/08/2022, 18:25:54  Zettelkasten workflow for research papers | Zotero & Obsidian link  YouTube    4:43 if you start to get bored or lose interest in the paper or realise its not so relevant after all, just ditch it   source     05/08/2022, 18:28:08  Zettelkasten workflow for research papers | Zotero & Obsidian link  YouTube    6:58 process to follow when reading   source     05/08/2022, 18:30:52  Zettelkasten workflow for research papers | Zotero & Obsidian link  YouTube    9:50 color coding of highlights   source   SEE ALSO 

https://www.youtube.com/embed/QRYzre4bf7I  Multiple encryption layers.  Ecah router has a key that can encrypt one layer of a message.  Therefore each router only knows three things: 1. The router before 2. The router aftarwards 3. The encryption key for a singular layer  At the very last stage, a router decrypts the final layer revealing the real message (a server request).   The reverse process happens on the way back:  Each router encrypts the original message layer upon layer until it gets back to the user.  The user holds all encryption keys and can decrypt all layers at once.   The privacy therefore occures by the fact that there are many differnt 'hops' or routers between client and server and each of these router hops are encrypted.  Therefore, even if someone managed to intercept the message a long the way, they would have no way to decrypt the message, and therefore do not have a way to identify the original sender.

I've been hearing that GUI elements use cognitive resources to process, and that this reduces the bandwidth to focus / think. This makes sense and can be supported by social media designers hijacking our cognitive functionality by picking the perfect shade of red to trigger built in alert processes in our minds.  But how much GUI is too much GUI? This question has been excited while setting up neovim. I have the choice often of including devicons or not, and I noticed that with nvimtree, having icons to denote every different file type / folder was actually distracting me from the raw information of what they were.  In other words, the coloring of the text and the extension allowed me to identify and move through directory structures faster and with less distraction. Or, the lack of icons did not make identifying files / folders faster, smoother or easier  in fact it was a bit distracting.  Then, reduce cognitive overhead to increase cognitive freedom.  An exception to this was the symbol for git file statuses and symlinked files (little arrow). To me this suggests that files should only have symbols if their context has shifted.  This idea of reducing distraction and therefore coginitive friction when working, is the fundament behind my Zettelkasten system design.      References:

 loc: 292 (09122020)   _No, just about how, over time, we tend to optimize and conventionalize our  responses to whatever life brings. Each of us develops our shorthand ways of  slotting and processing everyday experiences and solving problems, and while  this is no doubt adaptive—it helps us get the job done with a minimum of  fuss—eventually it becomes rote. It dulls us. The muscles of attention  atrophy._ ^ref14275     loc: 408 (14122020)   _The Doors of Perception_ ^ref42206     loc: 643 (18122020)   _the idea that brains create consciousness—an idea accepted without question  by most scientists—“is a metaphysical assumption, not a scientific fact.”_  ^ref50427   consciousness occurs when colonies of cells are large enough in number and connections     loc: 663 (19122020)   _This points to the second possible explanation for the noetic sense: when our  sense of a subjective “I” disintegrates, as it often does in a highdose  psychedelic experience (as well as in meditation by experienced meditators),  it becomes impossible to distinguish between what is subjectively and  objectively true. What’s left to do the doubting if not your_ ^ref35773     loc: 662 (19122020)   _The problem with crediting mystical experiences is precisely that they often  seem to erase the distinction between inside and outside, in the way that Bob  Jesse’s “diffuse awareness” seemed to be his but also to exist outside him.  This points to the second possible explanation for the noetic sense: when our  sense of a subjective “I” disintegrates, as it often does in a highdose  psychedelic experience (as well as in meditation by experienced meditators),  it becomes impossible to distinguish between what is subjectively and  objectively true. What’s left to do the doubting if not your I?_ ^ref63001     loc: 676 (19122020)   _The website (csp.org) offers an excellent bibliography of psychedelic  research_ ^ref56129     loc: 781 (19122020)   _“He would talk to anyone.” Like many people in the NIDA_ ^ref61222     loc: 1230 (21122020)   _“The Johns Hopkins experiment shows—proves—that under controlled,  experimental conditions, psilocybin can occasion genuine mystical experiences.  It uses science, which modernity trusts, to undermine modernity’s secularism.  In doing so, it offers hope of nothing less than a resacralization of the  natural and social world, a spiritual revival that is our best defense against  not only soullessness, but against religious fanaticism. And it does so in the  very teeth of the unscientific prejudices built into our current drug laws.”_  ^ref15617     loc: 1417 (23122020)   _The Stametsian Rule”: a threepronged test that, he (sort of) assures us, can  head off death and disaster._ ^ref23422     loc: 1475 (23122020)   _Altered States of Consciousness, that made a tremendous impression on Paul.  Edited by Charles T. Tart, a psychologist,_ ^ref10671     loc: 2001 (24122020)   _interesting and pleasurable but signifying nothing. The psilocin in that  mushroom unlocked the 5hydroxytryptamine 2A receptors in my brain, causing  them to fire wildly and set off a cascade of disordered mental events_  ^ref54936     loc: 2563 (05012021)   _Commission for the Study of Creative Imagination_ ^ref11404     loc: 2729 (08012021)   _Dionysian power of LSD was itself bound to shake things up_ ^ref2483     loc: 3172 (20012021)   _Not so with the psychedelic journey in the 1960s, which at its conclusion  dropped its young travelers onto a psychic landscape unrecognizable to their  parents. That this won’t ever happen again is reason to hope that the next  chapter in psychedelic history won’t be quite so divisive._ ^ref41338     loc: 6247 (27012021)   _surveying their musical practices: Barrett et al., “Qualitative and  Quantitative Features of Music Reported to Support Peak Mystical Experiences  During Psychedelic Therapy Sessions.”_ ^ref42742   Research     loc: 4033 (16052021)   _A hallucination implies a reality and a point of reference and an entity to  have it. None of those things remained._ ^ref42718     loc: 4306 (25052021)   _Realms of the Human Unconscious by Stanislav Grof._ ^ref26602     loc: 4372 (28052021)   _The network forms a critical and centrally located hub of brain activity that  links parts of the cerebral cortex to deeper (and older) structures involved  in memory and emotion._ ^ref17081  The default mode network?     loc: 4872 (27032022)   _Bossis suggested that Patrick use the phrase “Trust and let go” as a kind of  mantra for his journey. Go wherever it takes you, he advised: “Climb  staircases, open doors, explore paths, fly over landscapes.” But the most  important advice for the journey he offered is always to move toward, rather  than try to flee, anything truly threatening or monstrous you encounter—look  it straight in the eyes. “Dig in your heels and ask, ‘What are you doing in my  mind?’ Or, ‘What can I learn from you?’_ ^ref42991   Guidance advice  

Really creative and striking use of robotics. It uses a motion camera to aggregate the position of people entering the museum. With this data it moves and orientates itself towards them in a very cute and inquisitive way.

By controlling the flow of digital communication within this garden, social media platforms are exerting governance.  Three thematic areas are focussed on: anonymity and privacy, freedom of speech and restrictiveness of the platforms' interoperability with other technologies. Through these themes, platforms attain very strong governmental abilities. They can counter competitive advantage, remove or block accounts, adhere or decline the requests of national governments and control how users interact with their product through different hardware. e.g intentionally making their browser version of the app terrible to use  thereby navigating around the privacy constraints of some browsers. Instagram does not let you upload photos via the computer and google maps performs terribly on mobile browser.   p. 1 Addresses governance by social media rather than governance of social  media. Specifically, the article examines the extent to which these platforms  promote or constrain rights in three thematic areas: anonymity and privacy;  freedom of speech; and restrictiveness of the platform's interoperability with  other services and technologies.   p. 1 The technical infrastructure of the internet is of significant public  interest implications. The design and administration of this infrastructure is  commonly referred to as internet governance   p. 2 Looking at the conflicting themes of simultaneous governmental regulation  and usage of social media, that platforms serve as a type of privatised  governance for the public (potentially leading to dissent).   p. 2 Governments embed political values in the design and operation of  internet infrastructures and technologies by way of coopting the various  internet governance organisations. This is increasingly done for purposes  irrelevant to the primary function of internet governance  to keep the  internet functioning as a sound and unopinionated technical system.   p. 3 Private companies are taking an increasingly central role in regulating  civil liberties through the ongoing privatisation of internet  governance. This ties in with The helping hand: In Search of a Swedish  Institutional Regime for Infrastructural Systems, whereby Kaijser shows  how it has been seen that private intermediaries are given the responsibility  of managing sections of infrastructure and that this can lead to issues down  the line.   p. 4 Interesting cases for why a real name identification policy online can be  dangerous or impinge on the user's basic rights.   p. 5 The privatisation of privacy governance: whether anonymity is  permissible, what information is collected about users, and how this  information is shared with third parties.   p. 6 The Communication Decency Act provides immunity for social media  platforms against content posted by their users.   p. 7 The government is constantly requesting social media platforms to remove  or block content and accounts. Despite this, social media platforms comply  with a small percentage of requests from the government, showing the power  these companies do in fact have with regards to controlling content. Social  media companies release these figures in their Transparency Reports   p. 8 Platforms often behave like gatekeepers and constrain their users  eg  maintaining competitive advantage by blocking rival products.   We saw this recently with Musk blocking links to Mastodon.   The disclosure of NSA's mass surveillance incited a greater interest for  privacy, encryption and routing internet traffic around US servers.   Social media platforms have eroded the interoperability of the internet by  establishing such great market share, but developing propriatorey API's that  relate only to their service.    References:   DeNardis, L., and A.M. Hackl. “Internet Governance by Social Media Platforms.”   Telecommunications Policy 39, no. 9 (October 2015): 761–70.   https://doi.org/10.1016/j.telpol.2015.04.003.

 Search engines are more a wish list than an authoritative exposure to good  sources.    It's the default options that algorithms work with that define what results  are returned to us. How are these defaults made? Is it a natural  optimisation through the browsing habits of society at large? Or is it fuelled  by sales and advertisement?   Search engine's lead to higher carbon emissions because  search engines direct user mostly towards the businesses who pay the most to  Google through advertising, and who are simply the bigger players in the  economy. These businesses are typically more taxing on the environment as they  are favouring profit over sustainability. These are companies like major  fashion brands, airlines over train lines and cheaper Chinese imports over  local product.    References:   Haider, Jutta, and Malte Rödl. “Internet Search Results Could Be Increasing   Your Carbon Emissions.” The Conversation, December 7, 2022.   http://theconversation.com/internetsearchresultscouldbeincreasingyourcarbonemissions194334.

Author of A Declaration of the Independence of Cyberspace.  Mentioned in Coding Democracy  Technology matters: Questions to live with:   “... it takes about thirty years for anything really new to arise from an  invention, because that’s how long it takes for enough of the old and wary to  die.”   the best way to invent the future is to predict it—if you can get enough  people to believe your prediction, that is.

 Kim Albrecht  Professor at Filmuniversität Babelsberg.   Runs metaLAB at Harvard. Partially helping me wih my  ctech masters thesis.   Notes:   Insight by design: a calculus on computation  meeting with Kim Albrecht (20240122)

 Home note   is the central note of the entire vault. Everything stems from it.    Mocs  Like a worktable, with all relevant index cards.  An active thinking tool  MOCs are made when you have a large enough amount of notes, whereby you start to worry about the Mental Squeeze Point   Three Phases of Mocs 1. Gather 	1. Gather all relevant notes to that MOC and link to them.  2. Collide 	1. The most important / fruitful stage. 	2. Dive into each note and flesh it out into an Evergreen Note. 3. Navigate   Other Fluid Frameworks  home notes and mocs are fluid frameworks  order and chaos.   excellent note retrieval and the serendipity of discovery   Higher order notes are are notes that have mostly links to other notes.    The Process of Note Making  linking your thinking article While making a note or revisiting it, you can split the note into different notes  representing different ideas. Link each of these notes accordingly. From this, note taking and ideation builds. You don't need to say too much in one note, and Zettelkasten in fact thrives off this.    Mental Squeeze Point  A Mental Squeeze Point is when your unsorted knowledge becomes so messy it overwhelms and discourages you.

https://www.youtube.com/embed/nO5N_x2so0g  01:49 Different stages  how to collect and not lose them  how do I learn from it  turn that into a product (post, paper, etc)   06:07 Important to know what you are wanting to do with the information you are highlighting / capturing.   18:41 Indexes are only for when you get overwhelmed by a topic   20:26 Index creation process

 Linux   find good file structure for system config and work / personal files  set all the correct env variables for shell / system / nvim / bins / $PATHS / XDG_CONFIG / etc before config integration and package download  make a new tjc conf(?) and be systematic  place things as close to $HOME as possible to get there easily in terminal  automated tasks with cron (cronitor to monitor) and systemd   Security Plan   CryptoParty Berlin  Keepass  Nextcloud  Backup system / software   Before Selling Mac   confirm I can extract / view contents of .dmg files (or unextract them all to linuxs own vault system)   SEE ALSO 

 Together, LoRa and LoRaWAN define a Low Power, Wide Area (LPWA) networking  protocol designed to wirelessly connect battery operated devices to the  internet in regional, national or global networks, and targets key Internet of  things (IoT) requirements such as bidirectional communication, endtoend  security, mobility and localization services. The low power, low bit rate, and  IoT use distinguish this type of network from a wireless WAN that is designed  to connect users or businesses, and carry more data, using more power. The  LoRaWAN data rate ranges from 0.3 kbit/s to 50 kbit/s per channel.   Wikipedia

https://www.abc.net.au/news/20221126/loabageofartificialintelligencefuture/101678206  Loab is the name given to an AI generated image of a woman who consistently returns to haunt the artist in the article when generating new images.  The artist couldn't escape Loab. Even when providing prompts for unrelated content, Loab would still appear.   Adam Curtis

Luke Smith seems like one of those increcibly switched on and high functioning autistic people who are absolute tech wizards and have an amazing ability to injest information and recall it really well.   At the time of writing (March, 2023) I haven't dug that deep into him. But his podcasts are incredibly in depth and the information in them is impressive. I do get a feeling though that he's a borderline anarchist and while is able to understand a lot, his attitudes can be a little narrow and unforgiving.   Criticisms of Industrialisation

 loc: 217 (08102019)  In its simplest and most general sense meditation is a mental discipline  involving attention regulation.  ^ref21403    loc: 291 (08102019)  Peace of Mind in 1987, Meditation: Pure and Simple in 1996, and The Creative  Power of Imagery in 1997.  ^ref33292 Books   loc: 296 (08102019)  his spiritual classic The  ^ref1453    loc: 296 (08102019)  The Tibetan Book of Living and Dying,  ^ref36472    loc: 748 (10102019)  In the words of T.S. Eliot: We shall not cease from exploration, And the end  of all our exploring Will be to arrive where we started And to know the place  for the first time.1  ^ref8356    loc: 857 (10102019)  In this book we have classified meditation into three main streams or styles:  meditation utilising attention, meditation utilising intention and meditation  utilising inquiry.  ^ref63380    loc: 1327 (14102019)  the mind. It is really very  ^ref7368    loc: 1511 (14102019)  1. PROGRESSIVE MUSCLE RELAXATION  ^ref19268    loc: 1794 (15102019)  Mindfulness meditation cultivates a state of awareness that is less dominated  by thinking, less stimulated by imagination and memory, less active, and more  open, receptive and in touch with the aspects of one’s experience that are  here and now. Mindfulness practice slows down the forward projection of the  thinking mind, which is overly committed to achieving, getting, having,  holding and protecting.  ^ref59379    loc: 1865 (15102019)  But with patience and by persevering with the mindfulness practice, boredom,  restlessness and impatience are gradually transformed into feelings of peace  and spaciousness.  ^ref11957    loc: 1888 (15102019)  when you meditate, this may well be another form of resistance to simply  ^ref49608    loc: 1887 (15102019)  If you find yourself frequently becoming sleepy when you meditate, this may  well be another form of resistance to simply being in the present moment. It  is almost as if we have an on/off switch in our brain and nervous system: when  we are busy worrying, judging and planning, the switch is in the on position;  when there is nothing to plan, judge or worry about, the switch goes to off  and we fall asleep.  ^ref32935 Dad   loc: 1913 (15102019)  Remember, with mindfulness, you are not trying to change the contents of your  awareness—your thoughts, feelings and sensations. Rather you are simply and  profoundly changing your attitude to the contents of your awareness.  ^ref39041    loc: 1933 (15102019)  Paul was taught the Three Goodwills by Lama Thubten Yeshe. They are: 1. Bring  goodwill to your meditation teachers. 2. Bring goodwill to the meditation  practice—do not try to change, improve or adjust it; keep it simple and  ‘surrender’ to its simplicity. 3. Bring goodwill to yourself—do not judge  yourself or create high expectations and goals. Be patient and kind and gently  persevere. When the Three Goodwills are practised with your meditation,  meditation becomes just like a dear friend: • you love spending time with it;  • you give it your full, loving attention; • you cherish every meeting; and •  you treat it with respect and reverence. In this way, meditation ceases to be  a chore or a discipline and becomes, instead, a blessed and special time.  ^ref23503    loc: 2140 (17102019)  Monkey mind is excessive rumination on hopes, wishes, dreams, concerns and  worries which habitually recycle through the mind.  ^ref62691    loc: 2405 (24102019)  The mind withdraws attention from the body and the senses, so excessive  thinking is nonsense, i.e. nonsense! Mindfulness helps us to release the  domination of the thinking mind so we can ‘come to our senses’.  ^ref42460    loc: 2450 (25102019)  The way to deal with thoughts when practising Mindfulness of Breath is simply  to notice the thoughts without making them a problem and without allowing them  to be important. Upon noticing a thought, we do not fight it yet we do not  continue to feed it or follow it. We simply open our awareness to include the  feeling of our breathing—in other words, we turn our attention back to the  breathing and allow the thought to run itself out, to move on through.  ^ref53085    loc: 2479 (27102019)  The fact that thoughts continue to pop into your mind during meditation is not  a problem. Each time you notice you have been following thoughts, return to  the breathing and silently congratulate yourself for changing the old habit of  attention by coming back to the present moment. If you notice yourself  following a thought ten times in the space of a minute, then that is ten times  you can congratulate yourself—not judge and criticise yourself. Gently  persevere.  ^ref19143    loc: 2568 (29102019)  In the practice script that follows, your attention will be directed to what  we call the Four Access Points to body awareness. These are the feet, the  tummy, the shoulders and the face.  ^ref12927    loc: 2616 (29102019)  The true value of body sensations is that they involve no interpretation, no  imagination, no judgement. They are our direct experience of now.  ^ref41680 Atlas of emotions   loc: 2857 (08112019)  When you realise your mind has wandered away, simply return your attention to  the access point and the flow of your breathing. No need to analyse why you  were distracted or to criticise yourself; simply open your awareness, let the  thought be and come back to your body sensations. If thoughts about your  meditation practice intrude, including concerns about whether or not you are  ‘doing it correctly’, or wanting to get somewhere, just notice the  thoughts—not feeding them and not fighting them—and see them as words or  pictures in the mind. Then simply return your attention to the access point  and the flow of your breathing. By not reacting to these thoughts, they will  lose their power and simply become words and pictures moving through the mind.  ^ref39466    loc: 3048 (13022020)  Research findings in the field of PNI shattered the simplistic myth that  ‘negative emotions’ cause immune dysfunction and ‘positive emotions’ promote  it. The critical issue is not the presence of ‘negative emotions’ but whether  they are experienced and expressed, or repressed and withheld.  ^ref45253    loc: 3529 (14022020)  EXPERIMENT 1: NOTICE THE THOUGHTS  ^ref3441    loc: 3822 (17022020)  EXPERIMENT 7: WHERE IS THE OBSERVER?  ^ref29758    loc: 3828 (17022020)  THE COMPLETE PRACTICE OF MINDFULNESS OF THOUGHTSAND STILLNESS  ^ref7608    loc: 3839 (18022020)  EXPERIMENT 8: MINDFULNESS OF THOUGHTS AND STILLNESS  ^ref16013    loc: 3972 (19022020)  To be clear, when we experience this true nature we are not manufacturing an  experience or creating something new. All that we are doing is becoming aware  of an aspect of ourselves that was always there, is always there, will always  be there; only for most of us it has been obscured from view.  ^ref57886    loc: 3980 (19022020)  We overidentify with what we commonly call our ego and, as a consequence,  fear for its vulnerability.  ^ref54387    loc: 4071 (24022020)  MINDFULNESSBASED STILLNESS MEDITATION— THE COMPLETE PRACTICE  ^ref19831 Full script   loc: 4102 (24022020)  MINDFULNESSBASED STILLNESS MEDITATION: THE METHODSUMMARISED  ^ref53936

Monetary policy is the actions of a central bank that influence the supply of money to a country and the overall economy. The goal is to keep inflation at a target rate, which differs from country to country (I think, makes sense).   Releasing money too quickly into the economy creates excessive inflation.  Releasing it too slowly hampers economic growth.

An AI accelerated computation that creates 3d scenes out of very few 2d images. Can take only a few seconds. Said to be useful in autonomous vehicles, 3d design.  Runs on a single NVIDIA Gpu    References:   youtube

 07:00  Data is getting increasingly difficult to analyze and interpret usefully. Scientific companies are starting to go back to employing groups of scientists to work on hunches.  09:00  Climate change is making it increasingly difficult to predict the future and the technology industry contributes to climate change about the same amount as the airline industry.   10:00  Indoor Co2 passes 1000 parts per million. Human cognitive ability drops by 20% at this point.   12:45  Chaotic Storage. Amazon uses this to make distances to collect items smaller. But to get the staff there, they guide them via a wrist mounted display. Effectively surveiling and deskiling the workforce.   16:00  The above is the same as pokemonGo.   17:00  Youtube algorhitms guide people into a dark place to corrupt you.   20:30  The intention isn't to lead people to do bad things, the intention is confusion itself (reference Hypernormalisation and Putins Aid)  23:00  Concrete relationship between the opacity of technological systems and the abuse of them by the ellite.    References:   https://www.youtube.com/embed/tNMvYxJZgsU

 What is a PKM System (Personal Knowledge Management)?  What is the end goal, product, desired state?  Quick capture notes  needs to work well  How to keep track of notes status  when are ideas done / not started?  Jonny Decimal folder structure system  Document in daily notes what you have input into obsidian / what ideas you've had / what ideas they are connected to.  Obsidian Tracker plugin  Mac Smartfolders

 Open Source Software Development: Communities’ Impact on Public Good   p. 70  Stated that open source projects with contributors who share high interconnectedness are more likely to face high uncertainty in producing a collective outcome. That seems weird.     p. 71  The availability of free knowledge is assisted by community mobilisation (action stimulated and sustained by a community of people). Wikipedia is an example.     p. 74  Public goods rely on community involvement.

 Philosophy of technology: The technological condition: An anthology   Ch. 45  Three Ways of BeingWith Technology   p. 524  Heidegger defines a beingwith relationship with technology, that develops through technical  engagements within a context of social exchange. Such a world is not composed solely of tools and  artefacts, but of tools used with others and artefacts belonging to others     For many people, the ideas that guide their lives may not be held with conscious awareness or  full participation. They often take the form of myth. Philosophical argument and discussion then  introduces into such a world of ideas a kind of break or rupture with the immediately given. This  break or rupture need not require the rejection or abandoning of that given, but it will entail  the bringing of that given into fuller consciousness or awareness  from which it must be accepted  (or rejected) in a new way or on new grounds.

Pomodoro Technique is a productivity technique that uses a timer to break work time into 25 minute chunks.  The original technique has six steps:  1.  Decide on the task to be done. 2.  Set the pomodoro timer (typically for 25 minutes). 3.  Work on the task. 4.  End work when the timer rings and take a short break (typically 5–10 minutes). 5.  If you have finished fewer than three pomodoros, go back to Step 2 and repeat until you go through all three pomodoros. 6.  After three pomodoros are done, take the fourth pomodoro and then take a long break (typically 20 to 30 minutes). Once the long break is finished, return to step 2.

From PGS script  We understand procedural generation as the approach of applying algorithms and mathematical functions to synthesize a model or an effect. You can imagine it as finding a recipe to describe and synthesize content.    SEE ALSO 

 the substance of communication   p. 179    The essence of mass surveillance is meta data   Law lags behind technology by at least a generation  p. 180    data was later used to identify and ship individuals to death camps.  p. 183184  The use of technology, is not always in its final form.    In an authoritarian state, rights derive from the state and are granted to the  people. In a free state, rights derive from the people and are granted to the  state.  p . 206  The difference is between people who are given rights to do something and a public who agree to be governed in a covenant of consent that must be periodically renewed and is constitutionally revocable  p. 207.   Ultimately, saying that you don't care about privacy because you have nothing  to hide is no different from saying you don't care about freedom of speech  because you have nothing to say. Or that you don't care about freedom of the  press because you don't like to read.  p. 208   Saying that you don't need or want privacy because you have nothing to hide is  to assume that no one should have, or could have, to hide anything   including their immigration status, unemployment history, financial history  and health records.  p. 208  People in general do not fully understand the implications of totally relinquishing their privacy. Stating that privacy is not needed or wanted is a selfish statement and does not take into consideration the way that governments, agencies and companies may manipulate society and people. This is particularly the case for cultural or religious minorities.   90% of internet traffic goes through servers owned or operated either directly or indirectly by the US (stated early in the book). The NSA has a weapon named TURBULANCE, which watches traffic and flags whether the NSA would find it suspicious or not. If it is deemed suspicious, (e.g. containing keywords such as anonymous internet proxy or protest) the HTTPS request gets diverted to an NSA server which algorithmically defines malware to inject into the web traffic that arrives back at your computer along with the original web page that you requested. At that point the NSA has fullcontrol and visibility into your computer.  p. 225    It falls to independent opensource hardware and software  developers to close that gap by providing the vital civil liberties  protections that the law may be unable, or unwilling, to guarantee  p. 239  Here Snowden is talking about how the law lags behind technology so much, that governments and agencies can use that time to develop technologies that exploit that lag. An example was given about the move from HTTP to HTTPS. This technological innovation made it significantly harder for technological surveillance to occur.

 Some Thoughts on the Question How Do New Things Happen?  A speech given at SHOT. Summarises to a calltoaction that scholars and reporters should draw more focus to subaltern subcultures who use technologies in insurgent ways. It is these subcultures who have the power to shift the patterns that she has been observing in the media industry since she left grad school and begun studying radio as a communication medium.   She goes through some progressions of the media industry and it's technologies and outlines how due to world events such as 9/11 and technological innovations (things getting faster and more accessible) a media culture has developed with it's substance in narcissism and fear mongering.   But this can be navigated by searching on the fringes and in the subcultures to get the real value from the media industry and its reporting.    p. 295 Media frameworks consolidate a type of ideology of technology, which  follows the form of a prevailing common sense.    p. 296 It is noted that subcultures who use technologies in insurgent ways  can and have had assisted in technologies altering the course of history.  These are hackers and shows the power and value of  the the hacker ethic.    p. 297 Pondered what it meant to have a communications and entertainment  technology that denies sight to its audience.   p. 298 Radio enabled not only a recognition between each listener of a shared  act of listening, but also a shared act of cognition. A cognition of  imagination. This helped tie a society together that was broken from the  depression of the 1930's.    p. 300 Douglas began to consider that all technologies are scopic and allow  us to look inwards and outwards.    p. 300 Through the profit based progress of media technologies, we have seen  an implosion of culture   p. 301 The 70's showed us that with geosatelite transmission and a  transition from film to video, news media begun to report live. This  liveness meant that people could be delivered news as it was happening from  anywhere in the globe. However, as it was deemed that the most newsworthy  items (those that maintained the most viewers) was contextualised first and  foremost by conflict and disasters. The public therefore saw the world as a  place full of wars, famine, floods, genocides and dictators.      References:   Susan J. Douglas. “Some Thoughts on the Question ‘How Do New Things Happen?’”   Technology and Culture 51, no. 2 (2010): 293–304.   https://doi.org/10.1353/tech.0.0478.

 We're not in the music space  we're in the moment space Daniel Ek (If the  Song has No Price, is it Still a Commodity? : Rethinking the Commodification  of Digital Music)  They want to sell “music as an affective experience rather than as individual songs” ... Ultimately, we suggest that digital music services no longer sell discrete musical objects, nor do they focus exclusively on content offerings. Instead, services sell branded musical experiences, inviting consumers to see themselves and their attitudes, habits and sentiments about music reflected by the service they choose to adopt. (Morris & Powers 2015).

Note: Trancendental meditation is a pyramid scheme.   loc: 98 (30092019)   People at the top of their game love to be challenged. But whether you love or  hate your job, you can still pay the physical and emotional tolls of stress.  ^ref5731     loc: 157 (01102019)   EEG readouts measured while test subjects practise Focused Attention show that  these techniques enliven gamma brain waves in the left prefrontal cortex, the  brain’s decision maker. This means that the electrical activity in the brain  reaches a frequency per second of about 20 to 50 hertz (Hz), or cycles per  second. You see a similar result when a student concentrates on a mathematical  problem – which makes sense, because gamma waves are found when one is engaged  in a challenging task. In contrast to attempting to clear the mind of  thoughts, the second category of meditation, Open Monitoring, also known as  mindfulness, is about learning to observe thoughts dispassionately, without  judgement, as they come and go. This is because thoughts themselves are not  seen as the potential disrupter of calm, but rather it is the content or  meaning of thoughts that can disrupt.  ^ref32624     loc: 164 (01102019)   Back to the ocean analogy.  ^ref18525     loc: 178 (01102019)   Transcendental Meditation is in this category. Let’s return to the ocean  analogy yet again: there are active, often turbulent waves on the surface, but  there is calm at its depth. In the same way, we hypothesize that while the  mind is active on the surface, deep within is a level that is calm yet alert;  silent yet wide awake. The ancient meditation texts refer to it as the ‘source  of thought’ or ‘pure consciousness’ – a field of limitless creativity,  intelligence and energy within. Scientists give it a more clinical  description: a state of ‘restful alertness.’  ^ref53905     loc: 190 (01102019)   EEG readouts and brain imaging reveal that Transcendental Meditation  strengthens the neural connections between the different areas of the brain,  including within the prefrontal cortex, to promote better learning and  decision making.  ^ref51694     loc: 459 (02102019)   getting out of bed and then . . . resting! I had trouble with that  ^ref53929     loc: 447 (02102019)   But each time you meditate, even if your mind is filled with a million  thoughts, you do settle down toward levels of the mind that are deeper,  quieter, more satisfying. And when you do that, the equanimity you experience  during meditation naturally comes out to be lived more and more in every  moment of your life. And that is a very good description of the zone.  ^ref55985    References:   https://stillnessbook.com/

 Structuremapping: A theoretical framework for analogy   p. 2 Domains and situations of an analogy are psychologically viewed as  systems of objects (a rabbit), objectattributes (a rabbits ear) and relations  between objects (herd of rabbits).   p. 3 Knowledge is represented in the paper as propositional networks of nodes.  They're mapping knowledge in a node / network graph in order to describe and  represent relationships. This is in essence how the zettelkasten is  working and naturally has parallels to the topic of decentralisation.    Research:   Gentner, Dedre. “StructureMapping: A Theoretical Framework for Analogy.”   Cognitive Science 7, no. 2 (April 1, 1983): 155–70.   https://doi.org/10.1016/S03640213(83)800093.

 Swinburne University of Technology  multistrain synbiotic trial  This was the trial that mum took part in. It looked at a new mutlistrain synbiotic and its effect in elderly for (from memory) bone density and muscle mass growth.  Mum said it made a huge difference. She regained a lot of balance, muscle and also slept much better.  The strain was: u Bifidobacterium animalis B94 u Lactobacillus helveticus R0052 u Bifidobacterium longum R0175    References:

https://www.aristidesgarcia.de/tau     Wiki Tags

 General Notes  Use clean, simple language. Use as few words as possible.   CTech Script Ref  CTech writing script  The website daily writing tips describes the following helpful techniques for more precise writing » Lena says: At all costs try to avoid passive!  1.  Use Active Voice     When a sentence includes _be_ or any other copulative verb, such as _is_ or _are_, recast the sentence to omit the verb.      Don't: “The meeting was seen by us as a ploy to delay the project.”     Do: “We saw the meeting as a ploy to delay the project.”  2.  Avoid Vague Nouns     Phrases formed around general nouns such as _aspect_, _degree_, and _situation_ clutter sentences.      Don't: “She is an expert in the area of international relations.”     Do: “She is an expert in international relations.”  3.  Use Words, Not Their Definitions     Replace explanatory phrases with a single word that encapsulates that explanation.      Don't: “The crops also needed to be marketable so that families would be able to sell any yields that exceeded what they personally required.”     Do: “The crops also needed to be marketable so that families would be able to sell any surplus.”  4.  Avoid Noun Strings     Reorganize sentences to eliminate series of nouns used as adjectives.      Don't: “The lack of a secure transfer may hamper computer security incident response efforts.”     Do: “The lack of a secure transfer may hamper responses to computersecurity incidents.”  5.  Convert Nouns to Verbs     When a sentence includes a noun ending in _tion_, change the noun to a verb to simplify the sentence.      Don't: “They will collaborate in the creation of new guidelines.”     Do: “They will collaborate to create new guidelines.”      or en example without a _tion_:      Don't: “This paragraph provides a conclusion of the description”     Do: “This paragraph concludes the description”  6.  Reduce Verb Phrases to Simple Verbs     Identify the verb buried in a verb phrase and omit the rest of the phrase.      Don't: “The results are suggestive of the fact that tampering has occurred.”     Do: “The results suggest that tampering has occurred.”  7.  Replace Complex Words with Simple Ones     Choose simpler synonyms for multisyllabic words. I am not sure I agree with this  it is up to your personal style.      Don't: “The department will disseminate the forms soon.”     Do: “The department will pass out the forms soon.”  8.  Avoid Expletives     Don’t start sentences with “There is,” “There are,” or “It is.”      Don't: “There are many factors in the product’s failure.”     Do: “Many factors contributed to the product’s failure.”  9.  Eliminate Prepositional Phrases Replace “(noun1) of the (noun2)” phrasing with “(noun2)’s (noun1)” phrasing.      Don't: “The decision of the committee is final.”     Do: “The committee’s decision is final.”  10. Reduce Wordy Phrases to Single Words     Replace phrases that signal a transition with simple conjunctions, verbs, or other linking words.   More Dos and Donts  Don't: Due to the fact that the project is behind schedule, today’s meeting has been postponed. Do: Because the project is behind schedule, today’s meeting has been postponed.  Don't: “The meeting was seen as a ploy to delay the project.” Do: “We saw the meeting as a ploy to delay the project.” But don’t do this: “We then sort the vertices by height…”. Unless you are manually doing the sorting yourself, and not the algorithm.  Don't: The decision of the committee was... Do: The committee's decision was   Avoid:   emotional language (we feel very strongly...)  flowery language  superlatives (coldest, tallest, softest, etc)  it was very impressive   Grammar and Tense   Present Tense  In a paper everything you do is in present tense, also things that come later in the paper. Don't: In Section 3 we are going to show… Do: “In Section 3 we are showing…   Which vs. That  One of my personal pet peeves is the incorrect use of _which_ vs. _that_. _That_   Introduces what is called an essential clause. Essential clauses add information that is vital to the point of the sentence and can not be left out.  Example: I do not trust products that claim all natural ingredients because this phrase can mean almost anything.    We would not know the type of products being discussed without the _that_ clause.  _Which_   Introduces a nonessential clause, which adds supplementary information.  Example: The product claiming all natural ingredients, which appeared in the Sunday newspaper, is on sale.    The product is already identified. Therefore, which appeared in the Sunday newspaper is a nonessential clause containing additional, but not essential, information.  Essential clauses (that) do not have comma introducing or surrounding them, whereas nonessential clauses (which) are introduced or surrounded by commata!

 Technological determinism seeks to show technical developments, media, or  technology as a whole, as the key mover in history and social change. It is a  theory subscribed to by hyperglobalists who claim that as a consequence of  the wide availability of technology, accelerated globalization is inevitable.  Therefore, technological development and innovation become the principal motor  of social, economic or political change.  In other words, to say that technology determines society would mean that society does not have a role in determining the advent of technologies.  A competing theory is the Anchor Network Theory (ref).

 loc: 320 (12112019)   Let’s suppose an algorithm is showing you an opportunity to buy socks or  stocks about five seconds after you see a cat video that makes you happy. An  adaptive algorithm will occasionally perform an automatic test to find out  what happens if the interval is changed to, say, four and a half seconds. Did  that make you more likely to buy? If so, that timing adjustment might be  applied not only to your future feed, but to the feeds of thousands of other  people who seem correlated with you because of anything from color preferences  to driving patterns.  ^ref39693    loc: 499 (12112019)   the same account of the pieces that make up the problem. How about “Behaviors  of Users Modified, and Made into an Empire for Rent”? BUMMER.  ^ref6547     loc: 812 (17112019)   Articles with titles like “How Technology Disrupted the Truth”fn2 are  plentiful enough that I hardly need to pile on.  ^ref28663     loc: 1000 (20112019)   You can’t tell someone where to go and then claim that you discovered something new because you learned where that person went. This is yet another ubiquitous problem that’s as hard to see as air.  ^ref1707     loc: 1738 (27112019)   totalism that still underlies BUMMER. Memes  ^ref59534     loc: 1852 (28112019)   This book doesn’t address problems related to family dynamics, to untenable  pressures placed on young people, especially young women (please read Sherry  Turkle on those topics), the way scammers can use social media to abuse you,  the way social media algorithms might discriminate against you for racist or  other horrible reasons (please read Cathy O’Neil on that topic), or the way  your loss of privacy can bite you personally and harm society in surprising  ways.  ^ref42076     loc: 296 (06122019)   senseless rejection, being belittled or ignored, outright sadism,  ^ref22162     loc: 933 (22122021)   When advertisers complained—and only then, after the fact—Google started to  root out terrorist content.  ^ref48763

 loc: 449 (06062022)   He stood on a mountain slope with a deep valley below, and in it a dark lake.  He knew in the dream that something had always prevented him from approaching  the lake. This time he resolved to go to the water. As he approached the  shore, everything grew dark and uncanny, and a gust of wind suddenly rushed  over the face of the water. He was seized by a panic fear, and awoke.  ^ref6572     loc: 480 (06062022)   Water is the commonest symbol for the unconscious. The lake in the valley is  the unconscious, which lies, as it were, underneath consciousness, so that it  is often referred to as the “subconscious,”  ^ref16456     loc: 533 (08062022)   But one must learn to know oneself in order to know who one is. For what  comes after the door is, surprisingly enough, a boundless expanse full of  unprecedented uncertainty, with apparently no inside and no outside, no above  and no below, no here and no there, no mine and no thine, no good and no bad.  It is the world of water, where all life floats in suspension; where the  realm of the sympathetic system, the soul of everything living, begins; where  I am indivisibly this and that; where I experience the other in myself and  the otherthanmyself experiences me.  ^ref2711  To learn to know onesself is to be aware. meditation is a practice of being aware     loc: 1019 (29062022)   The question is simply this: are there or are there not unconscious,  universal forms of this kind? If they exist, then there is a region of the  psyche which one can call the collective unconscious.  ^ref18007     loc: 1021 (29062022)   It is not sufficient to point out the often obviously archetypal nature of  unconscious products, for these can just as well be derived from acquisitions  through language and education.  ^ref55635     loc: 1093 (29062022)   When a situation occurs which corresponds to a given archetype, that  archetype becomes activated and a compulsiveness appears, which, like an  instinctual drive, gains its way against all reason and will, or else  produces a conflict of pathological dimensions, that is to say, a neurosis.  ^ref28944     loc: 1097 (29062022)   Since archetypes are supposed to produce certain psychic forms, we must  discuss how and where one can get hold of the material demonstrating these  forms. The main source, then, is dreams, which have the advantage of being  involuntary, spontaneous products of the unconscious psyche and are therefore  pure products of nature not falsified by any conscious purpose.  ^ref23389     loc: 1099 (29062022)   By questioning the individual one can ascertain which of the motifs appearing  in the dream are known to him. From those which are unknown to him we must  naturally exclude all motifs which might be known to him,  ^ref6995     loc: 1106 (29062022)   Another source for the material we need is to be found in “active  imagination.” By this I mean a sequence of fantasies produced by deliberate  concentration. I have found that the existence of unrealized, unconscious  fantasies increases the frequency and intensity of dreams, and that when  these fantasies are made conscious the dreams change their character and  become weaker and less frequent.  ^ref1049

<iframe width=560 height=315 src=https://www.youtube.com/embed/6avJHaC3C2U title=YouTube video player frameborder=0 allow=accelerometer; autoplay; clipboardwrite; encryptedmedia; gyroscope; pictureinpicture allowfullscreen</iframe  The game of life. Mathematics game invented a long time ago that created life like animation. Machines have been built by us and allow us to discover things that were always there, but were never visible to us. eg the Mandelbrot Set.  Robert Felker  computer artist uses the Flutter app  International Obfuscated Contest. Contest for things that do a lot with tiny amounts of code.  Gödel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid. Book on music, recursion, fractals, poetry.   Wiki Tags

Tab nine  AI assisted code completion. Based on the idea of program synthesis.  Professor suggests that AI won't replace developers because the main part of coding is actually discovering the spec you want (what does this mean?). It's still difficult for the AI to know exactly what you want  and it's also difficult for the user to end up with a fully written program while also knowing that this is working exactly how desired.  Seems like in the end being a good prgrammer is being able to think creatively and with broad scope. Applications like this will stop this kind of thinking and bottleneck the creativity of programmers  by funnelling their output down the same direction of coding outcomes and patterns.   Why Do People Like This?  You don't necessarily know what you're going to get  and this can be magical and surprising. You can take these happy accidents and bring it into your programming. People are happy for the prediction to be accurate and interesting.  The AI is trained off your own data base  it's personalised. Micorsoft's / GitHub's CoPilot is based on nonpersonalised data bases.   How It's Working  It actually predicts an entire code snipped it the background  or can. But it only displays line by line, so the user can snap decision yes / no. The AI also learns from these decisions.   OpenAI  Tabnine uses OpenAI licensesed AI. Not trained on GPL (free software license) General Public License.  Free Liceces: MIT  Apache2  BSD2 Clause and BSD3.   Hack  You can theoretically get other people's code and train the AI on it, so that the AI can then be used to write software in the hand of the other programmers...   Ethics  Although these programmers are built on free licenses, the end result is a product that enables people to undertake unethical actions.  goteleport.com  certificate based access to all cloud computing services you use at the same time. Enabling better workflow. Certificates expire at the end of the day  enhanced security.   Use Cases  Could Tabnine be trained on all individulas of a team and sync between users so that the users in that team can write a style of code that is aggregated from each users. Creating one uniform unit  like networking computers together?

Not a good idea to apply to jobs where you know everything (therefore in tech, technically overqualified)  If you do an interview with a CTO / CEO at a large company as a junior engineer then something is probably wrong.  Interview process for startups can take a few weeks. Big companies can take 46 months.  Green Flags:   Being able to think out loud, systematically and in continuous steps  Being honest, low ego, good communicator, working well in a team and willing   to learn from mistakes  Being empathetic, thoughtful in the moment  even if it takes more time to   answer a coding question  Candidates that research about the company before the interview and asks   questions and shows interest in the interview  Thanking the interviewee, also after the interview via email / linked in  Red Flags:   Empathy towards the customer (don't suggest you think they're dumb or   controllable, etc)  Showing a quality of needing to be _right_ rather than _understood_  Not bring strong examples of career moments of failure, difficulties or   challenges  Junior / Senior   Generally junior engineer jobs allow more so for leaning on the job. This   understanding should be shown in the interview.  At all levels, it is expected (and understood) that things will need to be   learned and that you don't know everything  At a senior level, it's also about how much people will be able to rely on you   as a good collaborator, teacher and mentor

 02:00  The compiler provided a 10x improvement to programming productivity, yet it only  increased the demand for programmers. The internet spawned the job of a web  developer, who used to be few and expensive. Now nondevelopers can build websites,  but the demand for web developers is higher than ever.   The trend seems to be that improvements in developer productivity and technology  only increase the demand for developers. AI could well in theory continue in  this trend by making develoeprs more productive and therefore able to tackle more  tasks. It will also enable many smaller businesses to hire people for small jobs,  apps, services, that would otherwise be too expensive for them or too difficult  for novice developers.    08:50  Jerod is amazed by how many new ideas he's seeing due to the advent of AI. A net positive  Gergerly says that with the increase of AI code, we will end up with code bases  of much more complex and buggy code than before. This is because people may not  have the expertise, time or desire to identify problems before integrating AI  generated code. He therefore thinks that there will be an increased demand for  developers who know the deeper and finer details of the tech stack, as they will  be the ones who are truly valuable at a higher level.   In other words, there will be more and more developers who have an increasingly  high level understanding of the tools and domains they work in.  This is in line with my general belief that a deep understanding is a valuable asset.  Gergerly thinks in the future that the bootcamp entry path will no longer work.  A higher knowledge foundation will be a requirement of a first job.   13:00ish  Stackoverflow sold for 1.8Billion...   18:30   The messy part in tech and the hardest to figure out is humans.    Gergerly   29:00  Talking about OpenAI firing  Sam Altman OpenAI is incredibly important to Microsoft.

The GAN model was invented in Thübingen by Gatys, Ecker and Bethge It involves a model in essence training itself (unsupervised learning) by generating data and testing it against itself (a converstation between the Generator and Discriminator).   In their paper, they showed it's functionality with images whereby the process called style transfer was invnted and coined.   However it's also used to teach a ML model how to overcome a problem, as seen here.   References:   Youtube

Iceberg yes. Saying yes to something, but understanding the hidden things, below the request, you are also saying yes to.  It's a system for helping define when to say yes to something or not. You properly consider how much extra work / responsibility / time you are also taking on with your yes and then make the decision whether to accept or decline.    References:   From the Taking Back Control of Your Time podcast from All in the Mind.

When you're getting stuck in a state of negativity, anxiety or frustration, use The Machine Mind. The past is a fact, the future is a possibility. Move forward.  Occurrences in the past do not have an emotional context for a machine. It only sees the past as a set of data points, and uses them to asses possibilities in the future. This is the most optimal way of operating  in terms of being efficient.  The emotional state is not something to avoid, or rid ourselves of. But it is something that can get the better of us, particularly when it is a negative experience. But all things past do come to rest eventually. Not getting caught up in the negative ones allows us to move forward positively. Respect the negativity, but use it to move forward positively.

 Blogging isn’t just a way to organize your research — it’s a way to do  research for a book or essay or story or speech you don’t even know you want  to write yet. It’s a way to discover what your future books and essays and  stories and speeches will be about.    Two decades in, I can safely say that this community of peers, mentors,  sounding boards, protégés, friends, combatants and interlocutors is more  useful to me as a writer and a person than the even the prodigious  instrumental benefits that blogging brings to my composition process.    References:   Doctorow, Cory. “The Memex Method.” Medium (blog), May 10, 2021.   https://doctorow.medium.com/thememexmethod238c71f2fb46.

I wanted to frame my understanding of the current crypto crash by looking back at the past one. I feel like in the 2018 crash, the same feelings of hindsight, doom and gloom, toldyouso attitudes would have been present. Then the price of crypto was still for a while until this surge, which completely and utterly dwarfs the preceding one.   So I went searching for articles from that time frame to see what the tone of the moment was. In this article on The New Yorker was this little statement about Buterin:   He envisaged a onebladefitsall version, a blockchain platform that was  broader and more adaptable to a wider array of uses and applications. The  concept behind Bitcoin—a network of machines all over the world—seemed to be  a building block upon which to construct a global computer capable of all  kinds of activities.  This makes it clearer as to the value of Blockchain technology, cryptocurrency being the method of transaction within that network. The problem before with giant networks of computers was security, but the Blockchain is set to solve this problem. So it could be a monumental shift in the way the internet, and specifically transactions on the internet move forward. What the online world needs moving forward is an effective method of decentralisation.  This is also why I believe Bitcoin will eventually fully fade out, it doesn't aim to solve any problem except that of payments. There's no network ecosystem around it. There's no value.

https://www.thethingsnetwork.org/   A global collaborative IoT ecosystem that creates networks, devices and  solutions using LoRa

 The relationship between feelings of knowing and the number of neighboring  concepts linked to the test cue   Question posed:    How do people determine that they know information learned earlier   even when they cannot reacll that information at the moment?  partialretrieval hypothosis suggests that the feelingofknowing  is based on related information that comes to mind while searching  memory for something specific.  † Zeigarnic could remember everything. There was no feelingofknowing.   References:   Schreiber, Thomas A., and Douglas L. Nelson. “The Relation between Feelings   of Knowing and the Number of Neighboring Concepts Linked to the Test Cue.”   Memory & Cognition 26, no. 5 (September 1, 1998): 869–83.   https://doi.org/10.3758/BF03201170.

 Trust in Open Source Software Development Communities: A Comprehensive Analysis   p. 1   Trust forms a pillar for effective cooperation, leading to a reduction in  conflicts and risks, associated with quality of software development.  It's arguable that the process of developing that trust, trains a skill to be able to identify and foster trust with others outside software development as well.

Ulam Spiral, Wikipedia   The Ulam spiral or prime spiral is a graphical depiction of the set of prime numbers, devised by mathematician Stanisław Ulam in 1963 and popularized in Martin Gardner's _Mathematical Games_ column in _Scientific American_ a short time later.(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ulam_spiralcite_noteFOOTNOTEGardner19641221) It is constructed by writing the positive integers in a square spiral and specially marking the prime numbers.

Back in the day, organizations ran applications on physical servers. This was the best solution at the time. But the problem was the limited resources of the server itself. The server would run multiple programs, but if one program was used in a way that required more resources than the others, then the other programs would underperform due to lack of resources.   The following solution was to make virtual machines. These run on a single servers CPU. Each VM runs it's own operating system on top of the servers hardware and has the same amount of resources delegated to it. This solution also offers more security, as the VM is self contained and therefore data cannot be as easily accessed from one VM to the other.   The era following this, which we are currently in uses container deployment.

 If WASM+WASI existed in 2008, we wouldn't have needed to create Docker. That's how important it is.  Web assembly on the server is the future of computing.  Solomon Hykes, cofounder of Docker, Mar. 27, 2019  Links:   The State of WebAssembly 2023

 SEE ALSO 

https://wavepaths.com/   We provide adaptive music both for psychedelic therapy and as psychedelic  therapy, in collaboration with world class artists.  Use and offer generative music for the therapy / alongside.

An essay about the strengths and limitations of three broad ways of framing Internet histories. These are a singular technical entity, born from ARPANET (the US), an occurrence of many smaller systems independent of each other and a system of governance and control.   It's argued that the internet is a cultural artefact as much as it is a technological system. We see this in the way different cultures and societies engage with the internet. This comes through historical cultural values as well as socioeconomic factors, which includes internet access, speeds, consumer hardware, free time to spend online and governmental control.  Importance is placed on the value of understanding the internet as a shared development rather than a singular technological entity born from the US.   p. 2 The spread and adoption of the internet has been documented differently  by different cultures.   p.3 Once learned, infrastructures become invisible until they break or falter,  after which they are painfully visible again.     p. 4 Cybersyn was a nationally networked computer infrastructure in Chile  1971. It existed before ARPANET and shows that the internet is not a  technology that exclusively comes from the US.    p.3 Stating that online communities are largely formed out of privilege of  free time and money for paid memberships. This is a bit out of touch. Back in  the day, this was the case for sure. But in the modern day, I would argue  (without having any qualitative proof) that it's he upper classes that will  spend less time online as they have more money to enjoy sports, events, trips  away and other such entertainments. They may well still be on their phones  during that time, but the critical mass have a smartphone now.    p. 5 The geographical coverage of the internet follows patterns of power  disparities. Something that James Bridle writes about in New Dark Age  James Bridle.    p. 6 To see the internet as a collection of local systems interfaced together,  is to see the internet as multiple. Within each local net can exist a  different relationship with internet both for users, providers and regulators.    p.7 A moral high ground has been created through the adoption of an ideology  that the US are the founders of the internet. But in essence, the internet  is a system of decentralised structures. It also came to be through this same  phenomena, decentralisation.    Using terminology like internet histories rather than histories of the  internet helps shift the focus away from a singular technological entity, to  a myriad of cultural manifestations.   References:   Abbate, Janet. “What and Where Is the Internet? (Re)Defining Internet   Histories.” Internet Histories 1, no. 1–2 (January 2, 2017): 8–14.   https://doi.org/10.1080/24701475.2017.1305836.

 Why Open Source Misses the Point of Free Software  GNU Project  Free Software Foundation  free software means:  the freedom to run it, to study and change it, and to redistribute copies  with or without changes. This is a matter of freedom, not price, so think of  “free speech,” not “free beer.   these freedoms are vitally important. They're essential, not just for the  user's sake but for society and democracy as a whole as they promote social  solidarity  meaning sharing and cooperation.   open source detracts from the FOSS cause, as it does not have complete  freedom of the user at the forefront of its intentions.    References:   https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/opensourcemissesthepoint.en.html

 YUA  How will AI affect the 2024 elections?  The greatest threat to democracy in 2024 is loneliness.  AI models will foster relationships with everyone, and the lonely will fall for it the hardest.  People are using the newfound ability to discredit an image as AI generated content as a shortcut to confirming their own beliefs.    Source: https://overcast.fm/+Rs4uVOqD0

About how burnout is the result of believing that work is what brings purpose to ourselves. But in fact this modern belief fules itself, where each accomplishment matters less than your constant effort toward the next accomplisment.    Engagement is not about stepping back, though. It’s about immersion. When  performing a procedure, surgeons do work that lends itself to the experience  of “flow”. As the late psychologist Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi described them,  people in flow states shut out the world and their own bodily needs, forgoing  food and sleep as they do something that seems good for its own sake. It’s  a state of engagement that video game designers try to foster, because it  makes the game hard to quit.   References:   https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2022/jan/06/burnoutepidemicworklivesmeaning

1 box for reference 1 box for thoughts   Step 1  Take Literature Notes  Keep notes short, be selective and write them in your own words.   Step 2  Take Reference Notes  Take bibliographical / reference notes about the source (ie where to find the info that inspired the thought)   Step 3  Make Permanent Notes  Go through each note from that info source.  Make connections between what you learned and what you know.  This creates more hooks to connect new information too.   Find Meaningful Connections  1. How does this idea fit into what I know? 2. Can this be explained by something else? 3. What does X mean for Y? 4. How can I use this idea to explain Z?  This is the 'itegration' layer as part of the layers of evidence principle.   Finding Keywords  Note: This is relating to a keyword zettel, like a book index. Against each  keyword are a few different representational notes of the keyword. This concept  should never be applied to the practice of tagging.   It's not about knowing where to store the note, it's about:   deciding in which circumstances do I want to stumble upon this note?  When and how will I use this idea?  Keywords should be assigned in relation to the overall topic you are working on with that idea and never by considering the note in isolation.    Fleeting Notes  Ideas that pop into your mind.  Review them within a few days and turn them into new seeds if inspired to.    References:   Youtube

The advertising profit model solidifies the intent to sell the user, rather than sell to the user. The average per user, per quarter value of a user to Facebook is just under $3 per month. Many paid software products (open source and closed source) who do not rely on the advertising model, sell their product for more. This begs the question, has the amount of turmoil and damage that social media has caused been worth saving $3 per month? Clearly not.  Of course there are reasons for this measly $3 per month figure. It is in part because US users are worth around three times more than users from Europe, and even more from the rest of the world. But also simply because Facebook has managed to acquire so many users. It achieved this by having the right idea at the right time, but also due to the now infamous network effect. If they had charged users from the beginning, it is safe to say the uptake would have been slower and would probably never reached the levels they are today.

A pretty poor excuse. Most of the world have terrible latency already, so it would only be those in the US who would notice the difference.  These are the exact kind of scenarios where regulatory pressure would make these changes a reality. If data centres were forced to pay a carbon tax high enough, they may consider simply moving their centres to arctic countries to take advantage of free cooling as they call it.  This would drastically reduce energy consumption, and work against making the world hotter so that our servers can keep functioning  against a world that is getting hotter.  Sometimes the ridiculousness of the approach to the climate crisis becomes very apparent.

I had my laptop plugged into an external monitor. The computer would intermittently freeze. I could move the mouse, but not interact with anything or scroll. Then it froze for a long time, so I unplugged the monitor and my screen went blank. A restart I suppose as I was prompted to log back in and all my apps that I'd previously had open started to open.  Happens sometimes I guess; but then I noticed that my trackpad / pointer was reacting soooo much smoother. It felt great, like the computer had regained some sharpness in thought during its brief power nap. I was elated. An upgrade! Out of nowhere! Or was it?  I didn't confirm any upgrade, it was a sudden restart. A bug. But why did my mouse behaviour change?   It's so menial and strange, that it makes you suddenly a bit uneasy. Where you don't feel in control of your system anymore.     SEE ALSO 

 Life is a balance between chaos and order. In pure chaos, there is no order.  In pure order, there is no chaos.   In pure chaos, there is no life.  In pure order there is no life.   If every aspect of life is understood rationally, there is no life as it disregards the factor of chaos.  If every aspect of life is regarded as chaos, then there is no understanding of life.   To understand life, one needs to understand chaos and order equally as one and the same.   Edit 20240115: How can chaos and order be defined as one and the same, as in, what synonym, symbol  or metaphore can be attributed to both in order to communicate they are the same as each other?   References:   Personal notebook 20181224.

A nice quote from Steve Yegge in one of his tech talks.  It may well be a good strategy to really understand this when moving into a software career. One thing that strikes immediately true is the notion that the company doesn't really care about you, they care about surviving.  People struggle with this in thinking that the company feels about them, the way that they feel about the company. That they have a relationship and that the relationship binds them, bringing with it care and consideration.  As Steve also says, that may be true within teams, but at the broadest scale of the company, this is far from the truth (the larger the company, the more true).  An organism will kill and recycle cells without any consideration (it doesn't have the faculty of consideration). It's goal is to survive, and if it needs to kill cells to do this (starvation will eat the bodies own fat and muscle), it will.  This falls very much into the space of organisational psychology.

 A copyright is a type of intellectual property that gives its owner the exclusive right to copy, distribute, adapt, display, and perform a creative work, usually for a limited time. The creative work may be in a literary, artistic, educational, or musical form. Copyright is intended to protect the original expression of an idea in the form of a creative work, but not the idea itself. A copyright is subject to limitations based on public interest considerations, such as the fair use doctrine in the United States.  Wikipedia     SEE ALSO 

 creativity   philosophy   what is creativity?  where do creative ideas come from?   creative ideas are derived from indeterminism  creative ideas arise through dialogue  creativity is the combination of preexisting artefacts  the flow state is a refuge for creativity   psychology   the creativity exhibited by children stems from their innate openness to reality   technology   Are generative AI models creative?  Zettelkasten and network graphs support creative ideation by offering interactive systems of interconnected data  is creativity fostered by an ability to understand systems?   the creative act   the flow state is a refuge for creativity  creativity is the antithesis to conformity and uncertainty   ref notes   Wired to Create  How do people get new ideas?  Isaac Asimov    References:   start

An interesting point as to defining what crypto currency actually is.    SEE ALSO 

 data lineage includes the data origin, what happens to it, and where it moves over time. Data lineage provides visibility and simplifies tracing errors back to the root cause in a data analytics process.It also enables replaying specific portions or inputs of the data flow for stepwise debugging or regenerating lost output. Database systems use such information, called data provenance, to address similar validation and debugging challenges. Data provenance refers to records of the inputs, entities, systems, and processes that influence data of interest, providing a historical record of the data and its origins. The generated evidence supports forensic activities such as datadependency analysis, error/compromise detection and recovery, auditing, and compliance analysis. Lineage is a simple type of why provenance.Data lineage can be represented visually to discover the data flow/movement from its source to destination via various changes and hops on its way in the enterprise environment, how the data gets transformed along the way, how the representation and parameters change, and how the data splits or converges after each hop. A simple representation of the Data Lineage can be shown with dots and lines, where dot represents a data container for data points and lines connecting them represents the transformations the data point undergoes, between the data containers.   Wikipedia

A good and sound principle for software engineering, like the RFC  Software Design Process. It sounds like it would be a good principle to implement to general problem identification and solution finding of all types.   Life decisions, build decisions, modification decisions (to your home, etc). Just replace 'code' with 'actioning'.

 dreams and stories   Dreams (chronologically ordered)   Last Day at Disney Land  Triangle of Strangeness  endless horizon of pastel ribbons  aztec dream  StormTrooper Mangled Baby  dojo guru  Lara in quicksand   Stories   the truth coming out of the well  the wandering horse  catching with eyes closed

The fediverse is the sum of all software that's built on ActivityPub, a protocol standard set by the w3c for developing decentralised social networks.     All software in the fediverse has the ability to communicate with each other by means of a json string  wikipedia.    Since the beginning of Twitter's apparent downfall, as well as general sentiment amongst the public of social media, software like Mastodon have seen a strong uptake in users.   In The Changelog Podcast  528, Even Prodromou talks about the current outlook of the Fediverse as well as the challenges it faces.   One interesting point is the fact that, in the case of Mastodon as the example, instances have the risk of becoming quasicentralized in that the maintainer not only adopts an air of importance and command of the server, its users and it's culture to a degree, but that maintainer can also burn out and close the server.   One of the benefits of a decentralized network however, is that those users can simply make an account on new instance. This is made possible by Mastodon being built on the ActivityPub protocol, allowing export and import of data and connections between services.  Bluesky is a new (20231006) decentralised social media platform, but built on their own AT Protocol

 Vipassana  Vipassana is the original, unaltered meditation technique of The Buddha (as we were taught, any enlightened person is Buddha), Siddhartha Gautama. It is a practice of meditation that is universal in that everyone has access to it. You don't need to pay someone to provide you with your own special mantra (no access for the poor), to visualise an image (no access for the blind), or to sit or move in any particular way (no access for physically challenged). The technique is grounded in experiencing the present moment through observation of bodily sensations, something that everyone has access to ^1].  The following is my understanding of the philosophies of Vipassana meditation and how they interface with our daily life and nature as a whole. As context, you can read a text [here based on a talk by S.N Goenka, who was a leader in the teaching of Vipassana from 19692013.   I comment a little bit on the ten day course I completed in June 2023, but in keeping with the correct way of introducing people to the course  I do not want to influence too much or create too much of an image.  The TL;DR for the Vipassana course itself is that it was mentally and physically challenging but very educational and rewarding. The two advices I would give is 1) anyone considering to undertake a course should first establish a  practice of regular mindfulness meditation and be comfortable to sit on the ground with legs crossed. This is more so that you can take best advantage of the unique experience and environment of a Vipassana course, and not have to spend all your time battling physical discomfort. And 2) to just wait until you feel like it's  a good time to do it. There's no need to rush. It will pay off much more if it's done  when it wants to be done.   The Retreat  I did my course in Sweden at Dhamma Sobhana. The environment was a manifestation of tranquility itself. To be found were well kept gardens, small forest areas with varieties of beautiful flowers, winding paths and cosy red cottages with white outlines. Time is defined by the soft striking of two gongs. One for the male students, another for the female, a perfect fourth interval apart, creating a slowly phasing ambient rhythm that is heard anywhere in the compound. Beds are comfortable, food is wholesome and amenities just fine.   The noble silence was an interesting and special experience. On the arrival day, you meet everyone and can get to know each other, then from 20:00 the noble silence begins. The nine days that follow you may not talk or communicate with other students in any way. No gesturing, writing or signalling. This helps a lot with being able to stay in the meditational focus and frame of mind required to make the meditation sessions more fluid. It also reduces the mental friction that can occur if students compare their experiences with each other throughout the week. This can lead to comparison between ones self and others, which has no useful place in meditational practice at all. The meditation is your experience. The yard stick is your equanimity.   The most profound thing about the silence though is, upon the last day when the silence is lifted, how much more you know each other despite not having talked since day one. Everyone feels like close friends. This no doubt comes through the sharing of the challenging experience, and living in close quarters with each other. It was very interesting to experience how a strong sense of solidarity  and friendship can still occur in near total lack of communication, vocal or otherwise.   I considered a few times that it could be an interesting exercise for teams of  software developers to spend some days (maybe not ten) in a retreat, where they cannot  communicate with each other at all, but need to live together and also work on a programming  task. The value would lie in the interpersonal and social developments that come from a form  of interaction that is outside of the normal and mundane (like the uncomfortable exercise  of two people being tasked to stare for two minutes directly into each others eyes without  averting their gazes. Anyone who's done this, realises a strange sense of 'knowing' the person afterward,  despite having exchanged no words).   Vipassana retreats can be anywhere from three days to fourtyfive. Ten days  is the standard and recommended length. During these ten days, you essentially  live the life of a monk or nun. You don't speak, you eat the food that is prepared  for you and you follow a set schedule of meditation and break times.   It's demanding, physically and mentally. Eleven hours meditation every day requires the body to be accustomed to sitting on the floor without unbearable or increasing discomfort. And to focus continuously for ten days is strenuous in of itself, despite the focus not being on an analytical task. You do encounter then, a form of mental exhaustion, and it's made worse when you indulge in questioning how many days are left and how difficult will those days increasingly be. But this is just as much part of the practice. To disengage from those thoughts of aversion and craving, and the tension they bring, and to return to the true reality of you being where you are, moment to moment.   The Technique  On the forth day the main Vipassana technique, Pañña, is taught. It's the practice of observing sensations in the body and remaining equanimous with them. This means to not judge them as being pleasurable or unpleasurable, desirable or undesirable, wanted or unwanted. By practicing this equanimity, the behavioural pattern of the mind, which seeks to generate craving (pleasure) and aversion (displeasure), becomes weakened. The generation of craving or aversion leads to attachment; we become attached to something desirable happening, or something undesirable not happening. When the opposite happens, and what we want to happen does not eventuate, we encounter misery.   With this, Buddha concluded that craving and aversion are the root cause of all misery and to become fully enlightened, one must rid themselves of all craving and aversion. At this point, a lot of people get demotivated from the philosophy. This is a path only for some. The rest of us can move somewhere along the path and stop at whatever point is sustainable. That is the best collective result for society. It does not need to be all or nothing. You  can still have sex (even with yourself), or do <insert naughty thing. The idea  is to become a better person, not to become Buddha. You can actually bake the cake  and eat it too in this case, you just wont assimilate into the universe.  Vipassana teaches that each and every reaction we elicit, mental or physical, begins with a sensation in the body. The sensations in the body arise from the unconscious mind, that is its domain; the autonomous faculties of mind and matter. By training ourselves to calm our outer layer, the conscious mind, and to maintain awareness of bodily sensations as they rise and pass away, we are training an ability to integrate an awareness into our every day life. When we subsequently find ourselves in any situation, and we have a good practice of Vipassana established (being equanimous), we can become aware of a sensation in the body as they occur. With the awareness of that sensation, we can then react more wisely than we otherwise would, as our reactions otherwise would be just that  reactions, not considerations.    Anicca, The Law of Impermanence  From this comes the emergence of a compassion for all life an all beings, because all life, including ourselves, exists within the same universal law of impermanence. All things change. Because all things change, all things are impermanent, ultimate truth cannot exist in the generation of craving or aversion. Craving can remain permanent, as can aversion. They feed themselves and only grow more hungry. This is incongruous with the universal law of impermanence. It places you on a divergent path to that of true nature, which ultimately generates misery for you, as you are diverging yourself from nature.    Generating craving or aversion (sankahra) is the process of desiring reality to be something it is not. Vipassana teaches the practitioner to observe reality as it is, which brings tranquility and peace to the experience of reality. This does not mean that we can't desire things. Or that if we desire things or want things to be different, that we will only generate misery. Of course in essence, it does work this way and becomes clearer when you take the extreme as an example: If you always desire a different reality than your own, then your reality will be misery, because day after day, year after year it is not what you want. This is a disease that plagues many people who are focussed on generating wealth and power for the sake of wealth and power. It leads to never being satisfied, because there is always more to be had. Drug addiction works the same, it's just the object of the craving is different.   We can still desire things, and to be excited about things eventuating. The measure of how much misery this brings to your life is how much tension you experience waiting for the thing to eventuate and how equanimous you remain when that desire does not eventuate. If you experience no tension while waiting for the thing to eventuate; meaning you are present in each moment up until it eventuates or not, and if you do not react with frustration, anger, disappointment or such when it does not eventuate; then you are living a life closer to real peace and harmony. A life of equanimity.   Pure Vipassana theory would say that you should also not experience elation or euphoria when the thing does occur. On the outset, this does not sound appropriate. However, feeling elation, euphoria or other such extreme positive feelings, are the result of a craving being satisfied. If you were to feel elation, euphoria or such feelings when the thing eventuates, you would equally feel devastation, anger, resentment or such feelings if it did not eventuate. With each action there is an equal and opposite reaction.    A Sense of Realism?  It is however important to remember that nature and life could not exist without sankahra. Reproduction is fuelled by sankahra. Nature is perfect, but also imperfect. It is cruel and kind. We can also not simply conclude that a life completely void of sankahra which an enlightened person achieves, should be hailed as the true destination of happiness and prosperity for all humans. If all humans achieved this, we would stop reproducing. It would be an extinction event. However, it would arguably be better for all other beings and plants on earth if humans became extinct. Everything else suffers by our existence (except  viruses).   The paradox here I suppose is that if all humans did become enlightened, no one would have a problem with the human race becoming extinct within a generation, as we would all be one with nature anyway. We would be totally and collectively at peace with death and the ultimate truth of nature, meaning we would not be compelled to reproduce  a partial process of immortalising ourselves by passing fragments of ourselves down to our children.   At this point it is theory. Just reading the concepts can never lead to an accurate conclusion of its truth. It needs to be experienced itself. And this comes full circle to the essence of the Vipassana technique being a universal truth. It is a practice that is universally true for each and every human being. The practice is to experience one's own reality as it is, not as one wishes it to be. There is no exclusivity in the accessibility to this truth or ultimately to enlightenment. It is universal, and nature is universal. No one is more or less resultant from nature than anyone else. Anyone can experience the benefits of Vipassana because everyone has universal access to the truth of nature through the manifestation of sensations of the body.  As mentioned above, this is different from other modifications of the technique such as transcendental meditation, which requires the practitioner be given a mantra. A special and supposedly unique word, which only a guru can give. The provision of this mantra, carries the burden of secrecy whereby the practitioner cannot reveal the mantra to anyone else, or else the mantra will loose its essence. While using the mantra as a source of focus for meditation does calm and focus the mind, it does not allow the practitioner to access the pure truth of themselves and their place in nature. This is because they are themselves generating an alternate reality for themselves by repeating a secret word. This by definition is not a universal truth. If each practitioner of transcendental meditation is given a unique word, then each practitioner is experiencing a reality that is divergent from their true reality when they meditate, the reality as it is, not as they (through repetition of mantra) wish it to be. By diverging from nature in a meditational practice, one can never truly access nature at its core. Only the surface, a calming of the mind and an enhanced focus, will be reached.    [^1] I did some research for cases where people may lose the ability to perceive  all perception of sensations in the body, but did not find anything. Only partial loss in sensation.  If I'm wrong, please email me!

Consider some common traits of autism; lack of empathy, short temper, poor communication and social skills and a requirement for rigid structure and order in the environment. When coupled with the disparity in physical strength that men have, it's seemingly clear why autism as a disorder has contributed to the establishment of gender inequality.  It's also interesting to see how the advent of autism research and diagnosis has coincided with the growth of gender inequality as an issue, and female rights.  Keyword ngram     Source:

 Inflation is a measure of the rate of rising prices of goods and services in  an economy.  CostPush Inflation:   Results from production cost increase (material costs, wage rises, etc). The price of the product then needs to increase (inflate) as well.   DemandPull Inflation:  Strong consumer demand for a product, increasing the accepted price to pay. This can either be for a desirable item, which is typically short lived inflation. Follows the structure of supply and demand. A more widespread factor is consumer confidence. This occurs when unemployment rate is low and/or wages are rising.  Central banks aim to control inflation with monetary policy including interest rates.   Interest rates are increased to make borrowing more difficult, which slows  down the economy and decreases inflation

 The innovator’s dilemma comes from the book of the same title by Clayton Christerenses. The dilemma is this: a large, marketleading company has some motivation to innovate, but also a strong disincentive as well, because innovation risks undermining its existing products.   The Pragmatic Engineer newsletter on Bun  It's because of the innovator's dilemma, that startups can exist and new tech is developed. Startups or innovators in general do not carry the risk of undermining their own products and users. They can start with a clean slate where they may support 90% of some dependant technology and it's user's projects, but break the other 10% of projects / use cases.   As is in the example of Bun / Node.js. Bun has drastically innovated the JavaScript runtime, delivering incredible speed performances.  This concept should then really be more accurately titled the dilemma to innovate preestablished technologies carrying personal commitment

This is actually how the world is connected (and satellites I guess). Got this link from   http://lifewinning.com/submarinecabletaps/  I once asked Are we more connected through wires than through spirit?? James Bridle is connected heavily to this idea.     References:   The Cloud Is Material: On the Environmental Impacts of Computation and Data Storage

https://matrix.org/

 ... missing quote from ref  This encapsulates really well how technology comes to exist. It is at all times a response by the constant undulation of societal development. For example, currently we can see a movement towards a greater value and need for privacy, security and decentralisation online.   This has come from the corruption that social media has introduced to our social interactions as well as the sudden downfall of Twitter, which has created a surge of interest in federated platforms like Mastodon.   The decentralised communication protocol Matrix is also gathering momentum. Hivron Stenhav, my lab parter from Language Based Security at KTH who is currently doing her masters thesis at the Swedish Cyersecurity Agency on the protocol, tells me that a few countries are already or are seriously considering using it for their internal government communications.      References:   Technology matters: Questions to live with

 observations  previous keyboard shortcuts become highly incompatible  placing modifier keys defines the rest of the layers as well as they theoretically should remain accessible  definitely need to move slowly. First cover the basics  setup every basic key  that is needed, then start to think about modifiers  having modifier keys on hold under regular keys is super nice. eg `cmd` is underneath both 'a' and 'l' so my fingers are always on top of the command modifier when I need it!   reusing keys through layers may help to enforce muscle memory. eg, using the forward slash from layer 0 for divide on the numpad   theres alays going to be tradeoffs. eg mapping cmd on hold to all letters makes keyboard shortcuts less 'responsive', such as screen changing. Although screen changing will be mapped to the hyper key in the future (it also broke my vim exit bindking of kj)  After 1.5 months I'm back to the same typing speed on words. Haven't tested numbers yet, but I must be faster (when included with words due to number pad layer)  Jan 24th. Haven't touched the layout in about a month. So it seems pretty settled.  In total it took be about 23 months to get to a solid layout that works for me and to get my typing speed back to before.   SEE ALSO 

Multitasking does not actually exist. It's the term we've given to being able to shift our attention very fast between multiple focal points. People who say they are good multitaskers are in fact under the guise of The mereexposure effect.  Multitasking uses more floating attention.

 noise pollution, or sound pollution, is the propagation of noise or sound with ranging impacts on the activity of human or animal life, most of which are harmful to a degree. The source of outdoor noise worldwide is mainly caused by machines, transport, and propagation systems. Poor urban planning may give rise to noise disintegration or pollution, sidebyside industrial and residential buildings can result in noise pollution in the residential areas. Some of the main sources of noise in residential areas include loud music, transportation (traffic, rail, airplanes, etc.), lawn care maintenance, construction, electrical generators, wind turbines, explosions, and people.  Wikipedia    SEE ALSO 

 path of least resistance  This phrase is a common metaphore when describing the ambiguities behind understanding spritual philosophies. It is very much part of Taoism.      References:   meditation is a practice of being aware

The Tao.      SEE ALSO 

Open source allows the internet community to freely try a vast range of tools without having to spend money in the process, allowing each user to develop their own personal setup and functionalities suites to them and their specific needs and workflow.   This encapsulates the true advantages offered by computers and the internet.   While there can be the argument that open source hinders the profitability of software development, and therefore its progress  that's really only a problem for profit makers who are seeking profit.  The open source community rely on one another for their tools and pay one another when they value some software  which is when they uncover an app that suits their personal needs.

 postscarcity is a theoretical economic situation in which most goods can be produced in great abundance with minimal human labor needed, so that they become available to all very cheaply or even freely.Postscarcity does not mean that scarcity has been eliminated for all goods and services but that all people can easily have their basic survival needs met along with some significant proportion of their desires for goods and services. Writers on the topic often emphasize that some commodities will remain scarce in a postscarcity society.   Wikipedia



The quantified self is the behavior of collecting qualitative data on oneself. This covers medical as well as interpretive observations: mood, spiritual connectiveness, alcohole intake, etc.   Tools allow us to easily do this. But does it allow a better sense of self or a healthier behaviors? I believe that technology abstracts us from our spirit, effectively disconnecting us from a level of sensetivity that reveals a lot, but in an inheretly subjective manner. It can be logged, but the feeling gained from that sensetivity will provide richer data than the analysis of a change log can.   What allows a more effective positive progression in habits or mood, awareness of oneself or quantified data? There is a big pit fall in quantified data, where if the system is not set up sufficiently, it may just show trends, without much availability to analyse the relationships of those trends or which external variables are affecting them.    How can you develop a better sensetivity to the inner state of ones self?    meditation  therapy  psychadelic medicines  Psychedelic Therapy   References:   Quantified Self to the Extreme

I think it's interesting how there is a very clear and often heated divide between the use of the trackpad. Either dragging your fingers upwards scrolls upwards, or it scrolls downwards.  The argument for the draggers is that it's the same as moving a physical piece of paper. This simultaneous connection and difference between digital media which represents physical media is explored in great detail in Near Print and Beyond Paper: Knowing by Pdf  It's an interesting UX divide. Does it say something about the person? How they see the world, how the see technology or how they relate to technology?

Generally, this is the idea of virtual meeting places. Where people in meat space can have a digital proxy, through which they can communicate with other digital proxies. These proxies may or may not have a meat space host (in the case of bots), or multiple proxies may share a singular host (in the case of fake or troll accounts for phishing, stalking, OSINT or harassment).  While it is a good idea, we have seen how the control of these spaces by financially incentivised companies, has lead to the manipulation of society at large. This is a profound argument for the decentralisation of social media.

 GUIs are abstractions of the terminal.   Doing as much in the terminal as possible reduces visual coginitive overload and   context switching  It's easier to do more effective processes, both computationally and functionally   (without a mouse).

The PageRank algorithm was Sergey Brin an Larry Page algorithm to rank webpages by backlink conversion. They wrote a paper on it, and it formed their phd research.

 the barbell method of reading  A technique of reading that addresses two main problems:  1. reading a lot, but not processing the information 2. reading less, but wasting our time and energy on books of meagre value to us  Information is an opportunity, it means nothing if we don't use it.   Steps to execute  1. Read the book swiftly, skipping parts only if they make you vomit or put you    to sleep. Mark the passages of interest. 2. Read the book a second time, but only read the marked passages. As you read    them, process them as notes in the Zettelkasten.  A text contains four different types of mark opportunities:  1. Useful and difficult to understand. Mark these for later 2. Useful and easy to understand. Mark these for later 3. Not useful but difficult to understand. We don't actually want to process    these, but mark and return to them later to understand this. Doing this will    sharpen our mental teeth 4. Not useful and easy to understand. Ignore these  Highlighting and moving on also avoids noting down questions preemptively (as questions can and often will be answered later in the paper. Taking time out to write them down will take time and also has the potential to distract us from reading by taking us on a separate thought trail within the Zettelkasten). I've found that rereading the highlights after having read the full paper, creates much stronger literature notes and better and more relevant questions.  This technique and order of process is quite different to how Luhmann wrote literature notes (p.293).    References:   https://zettelkasten.de/posts/barbellmethodreading/

The brain has been proven not to function like a computer, because the brain is able to perceive and conceptualise the brain itself, which a computer can't do.  20240207: source? man...

 the efficacy of open source stems from the problems of others   A very large part of your solutions will come from others who have had the same or similar problem and received help. The fact that this is documented and open (stack overflow, etc) is as much a part of open source as writing code collaboratively.  But how does this differ from online forums in general? There people also have problems and offer help.  There is an ingrained culture of collective production and volunteering in software development. I think Zach Latta mentions this in his Changlog episode (ep. 536).  revisit: 20230926  Open source is the sharing of knowledge as commons Decentralisation: A multidisciplinary perspective. In a sense then, the source that is open is also the openness to share thoughts, shared experiences and problems. Through this, we help others.  So open source in terms of a license or code base, does not differ so much from online forums in general, as questioned above.

 the eyes give you a way to see the hidden emotional responses of people     References:

Here should go references to Coding Democracy about how hacking and the mindset of it has the power to enact great change, both in society politics and technology itself.  Also connect to Technology matters: Questions to live with where he makes points against technological determinism and how consumers, not scientists often discover what the next big thing is, which includes defining movements in society as we may potentially see with the advent of Decentralisation and privacy focussed applications and services.  Stallmans hacker ethic note should also link here.    References:   source unknown

This shifts the focus from modeling your own life picture off what you are fed from modern society. Understanding the difference between a good life and the good life is pretty critical. It becomes easier to distinguish when written like this:   Understanding the difference between a good life and the good life is pretty  critical.  The good life according to modern society  in my view  is financial wealth and everything it enables you to do. But chasing money dissolutions you in the long run from the truly good things in life  love, time, nature..    References:   Not Overthinking podcast  July 8.

www.thispersondoesnotexist.com www.thishorsedoesnotexist.com   Technology that we rely on, can shape and form our reality in a way where we can't tell the difference between what's real and what isnt. In some instances, eg with photos, it is now impossible to tell. This creates a world where you can never know what is real and what is fake.   It puts you on edge and makes you untrustworthy of reality. You recede into yourself and only belive and trust what feels right to you, which itself is a manipulation of the system that we live in.   Those feelings and those stimuli of what we believe are increasingly discovered through digital services which rely on algorithms to deliver to you the content  that ultimately has hidden intentions behind that particular content being delivered to you.  Similar to themes of Adam Curtis and New Dark Age  James Bridle

Another case of early establishment of patriarchal / misogynistic impressions being made on children.    I remember in primary school learning how to spell together. The teacher very clearly explained that the word could be broken up into a mnemonic phrase together. I remember back then I was starting to have a weird interest in girls (probably more so because I thought I had to because that's what the grown ups do). The mystery of how this should happen, what it looks like, what it should lead to was so think that I had no real reason to think twice about the literal sense of the phrase together. After all, as far as I understood, that was what I was curious about doing it.   To get (acquire) a person is not an acceptable thing to do in today's age. Nor was it when I was back in primary school in the 1990s. But as a kid, you don't comprehend these things. That is a societal learning that comes from your environment, namely the adults in it.   Moving forward without being aware of this, the idea to get the girl stayed present and was indeed reinforced by media, music and society. It starts very early, and is very pervasive...

FANG are the reigning dynasties of our time in cyberspace. Together they control the majority of the internet landscape. But there is a force brewing that stands to challenge their dominion. This is inline with the position that we're currently in a system of fudamislm, not capitalism.  What we're seeing with internet services of the web 3.0 age, is a style of grass roots resistance. These services or platforms, many built around blockchain technologies, desire to build their own communities  but critically  their own economies. This comes in the form of cryptocurrency, whereby each service or platform has their own.   With this, they build worth inside their own economy that exists within their satellite town on the outskirts of FANG's kingdoms. AI will become a commodity, a moat around the castle  Could we see battles and borders of control shifting as we move more into a decentralised or distributed internet? It could look a lot like the skirmishes and battles of the middle ages.   F, A, N and G could fall or at least have some power taken back from them, like the Soviet Union, England and Germany saw.

 Data engineering is the development, implementation, and maintenance of  systems and processes that take in raw data and produce highquality,  consistent information that supports downstream use cases, such as analysis  and machine learning.        Data engineering is the intersection of security, data management, DataOps,  data architecture, orchestration, and software engineering. A data engineer  manages the data engineering lifecycle, beginning with getting data from  source systems and ending with serving data for use cases, such as analysis or  machine learning.  Data engineers source data from systems, process, manage and supply it in a digestible form for end user usage. This can be AI or customer interaction.   Data engineers will work to translate sourced raw data into a core data set.    References:    Fundamentals of Data Engineering

Knowledge is commonly understood from questioning truth. This boils down to 'factivity', as you can know if something is true or false. In both cases, you know the truth. This is very much a philosophical view point. For this see, Knowledge  A Very Short Introduction.  But knowledge is also viewed from questioning what we know, that being, the information we have at our disposable that informs our thinking and behaviour. Knowledge in this sense can be understood as the scientific process; meaning, some process of experience and thinking that leads us to a conclusion. Theoretically, this does _not_ have to be logical or rational, Knowledge  A Very Short Introduction, p.61. But within the field of science, the scientific procedure (logic and rationality through observation) are required.  ActorNetwork Theory is interesting to look at here as ANT does not differentiate between knowledge (science, in this case) and the artefacts of knowledge (technology or more knowledge), see Encyclopedia of Social Theory.    Source: no direct source, in exploration of my ctech masters thesis.

 what makes for an effective team?   good teams have good social sensetivity  good systems of governance make teams more effective

A search engine that only indexes minimalist websites. ie, 'old school' websites straight out of the 90's without all the frills.   Could be a weird way to stumble on new things.    SEE ALSO 

 work and productivity    Work   why life experience is valuable to an employer  oncall Compensation  programming interview tips  clear communication   have the belief that you will always solve the problem

 Codenamed ScanV, it scours the internet for vulnerabilities, which are then  stored for use in future cyberattacks.   Markov founded Vulkan (meaning volcano in English) in 2010, with Alexander  Irzhavsky.   From 2011 Vulkan received special government licences to work on classified  military projects and state secrets. It is a midsized tech company, with more  than 120 staff – about 60 of whom are software developers.   One part of Amezit is domesticfacing, allowing operatives to hijack and take  control of the internet if unrest breaks out in a Russian region, or the  country gains a stronghold over territory in a rival nation state, such as  Ukraine. Internet traffic  deemed to be politically harmful can be removed before it has a chance to  spread.   References:   Harding, Luke, Manisha Ganguly, and Dan Sabbagh. “‘Vulkan Files’ Leak Reveals   Putin’s Global and Domestic Cyberwarfare Tactics.” The Guardian, March 30,   2023, sec. Technology.   https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2023/mar/30/vulkanfilesleakrevealsputinsglobalanddomesticcyberwarfaretactics.

